Unearthed Arcana: Artificer
Playtest Material

This character class is presented for playtesting and to
spark your imagination. These game mechanics are in
draft form, usable in your campaign but not refined by
full game development. This class is not officially part of
the game. For these reasons, it is not legal in D&D
Adventurers League events.

Masters of unlocking magic in everyday objects,
artificers are supreme inventors. They see magic
as a complex system waiting to be decoded and
controlled. Artificers use tools to channel arcane
power, crafting temporary and permanent
magical objects. To cast a spell, an artificer could
use alchemist’s supplies to create a potent elixir,
calligrapher’s supplies to inscribe a sigil of
power on an ally’s armor, or tinker’s tools to
craft a temporary charm. The magic of artificers
is tied to their tools and their talents.

Arcane Science

In the world of Eberron, arcane magic has been
harnessed as a form of science and deployed
throughout society. Artificers reflect this
development. Their knowledge of magical
devices, and their ability to infuse mundane
items with magical energy, allows the grand
magical projects of Eberron to continue running.
During the Last War, artificers were marshaled
on a massive scale. Many lives were saved
because of the inventions of brave artificers, but
also countless lives were lost because of the
mass destruction that artificers’ creations
unleashed.

Seekers of New Lore

Nothing excites an artificer quite like uncovering
a new metal or discovering a source of elemental
energy. In artificer circles, new inventions and
strange discoveries create the most excitement.
Artificers who wish to make a mark must find
something fresh, rather than uncover someone
else’s work.

This drive for novelty pushes artificers to
become adventurers. Eberron’s main travel
routes and populated regions have long since
been explored. Thus, artificers take to the edge
of civilization in hopes of making the next great
discovery in arcane research.

Creating an Artificer

When creating an artificer character, think about
your character’s background and drive for
adventure. Does the character have a rival? What
is the character’s relationship with the artisan or
artificer who taught the basics of the craft? Talk
to your DM about the role played by artificers in
the campaign, and what sort of organizations
and NPCs you might have ties to.

Quick Build

You can make an artificer quickly by following
these suggestions. First, put your highest ability
score in Intelligence, followed by Constitution or
Dexterity. Second, choose the guild artisan
background.

Artificers in Other Worlds

Eberron is the world most associated with artificers, yet
the class can be found throughout the multiverse. In the
Forgotten Realms, for example, the island of Lantan is
home to many artificers, and in the world of
Dragonlance, tinker gnomes are often members of this
class. The strange technologies in the Barrier Peaks of
the World of Greyhawk have inspired some folk to walk
the path of the artificer, and in Mystara, various nations
employ artificers to keep airships and other wondrous
devices operational. In the City of Sigil, artificers share
discoveries from throughout the cosmos, and one in
particular—the gnome inventor named Vi—runs a
multiverse-spanning business from there. In the world-
city Ravnica, the Izzet League trains numerous artificers,
the destructiveness of whom is unparalleled in other
worlds, except by the tinker gnomes of Krynn.

Class Features

As an artificer, you gain the following class
features.

Hit Points

Hit Dice: 1d8 per artificer level
Hit Points at 1st Level: 8 + your Constitution
modifier
Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d8 (or 5) + your
Constitution modifier per artificer level after
1st

Proficiencies

Armor: Light armor, medium armor, shields
Weapons: Simple weapons, hand crossbows,
heavy crossbows
Tools: Thieves’ tools, tinker’s tools, one type of
artisan’s tools of your choice
Saving Throws: Constitution, Intelligence
Skills: Choose two from Arcana, History,
Investigation, Medicine, Nature, Perception,
Sleight of Hand

Equipment

You start with the following equipment, in
addition to the equipment granted by your
background:
• any two simple weapons
• a light crossbow and 20 bolts
• (a) studded leather armor or (b) scale mail
• thieves’ tools and a dungeoneer’s pack

If you forgo this starting equipment, as well as
the items offered by your background, you start
with 5d4 × 10 gp to buy your equipment.

Optional Rule: Firearm Proficiency

The creation and operation of gunpowder weapons
have been discovered in various corners of the D&D
multiverse. If your Dungeon Master uses the rules on
firearms in the Dungeon Master’s Guide (p. 267) and
your artificer has been exposed to the operation of such
weapons, your artificer is proficient with them.

Magical Tinkering

At 1st level, you learn how to invest a spark of
magic in objects that would otherwise be
mundane. To use this ability, you must have
thieves’ tools, tinker’s tools, or other artisan’s
tools in hand. You then touch a Tiny nonmagical
object as an action and give it one of the
following magical properties of your choice:
• The object sheds bright light in a 5-foot radius
and dim light for an additional 5 feet.
• Whenever tapped by a creature, the object
emits a recorded message that can be heard up
to 10 feet away. You utter the message when
you bestow this property on the object, and
the recording can be no more than 6 seconds
long.
• The object continuously emits your choice of
an odor or a nonverbal sound (wind, waves,
chirping, or the like). The chosen phenomenon
is perceivable up to 10 feet away.
• A static visual effect appears on one of the
object’s surfaces. This effect can be a picture,
up to 25 words of text, lines and shapes, or a
mixture of these elements, as you like.

The chosen property lasts indefinitely. As an
action, you can touch the object and end the
property early.

You can give the magic of this feature to
multiple objects, touching one object each time
you use the feature, and a single object can bear
only one of the properties at a time. The
maximum number of objects you can affect with
the feature at one time is equal to your
Intelligence modifier (minimum of one object). If
you try to exceed your maximum, the oldest
property immediately ends, and then the new
property applies.

Spellcasting

You have studied the workings of magic, how to
channel it through objects, and how to awaken it
within them. As a result, you have gained a
limited ability to cast spells. To observers, you
don’t appear to be casting spells in a
conventional way; you look as if you’re
producing wonders through various items.

Tools Required

You produce your artificer spell effects through
your tools. You must have a spellcasting focus—
specifically thieves’ tools or some kind of
artisan’s tool—in hand when you cast any spell
with this Spellcasting feature. You must be
proficient with the tool to use it in this way. See
chapter 5, “Equipment,” in the Player’s Handbook
for descriptions of these tools.

After you gain the Infuse Item feature at 2nd
level, you can also use any item bearing one of
your infusions as a spellcasting focus.

Cantrips

At 1st level, you know two cantrips of your
choice from the artificer spell list below. At
higher levels, you learn additional artificer
cantrips of your choice, as shown in the Cantrips
Known column of the Artificer table.

When you gain a level in this class, you can
replace one of the artificer cantrips you know
with another cantrip from the artificer spell list.

Preparing and Casting Spells

The Artificer table shows how many spell slots
you have to cast your artificer spells. To cast one
of your artificer spells of 1st level or higher, you
must expend a slot of the spell’s level or higher.

You regain all expended spell slots when you
finish a long rest.

You prepare the list of artificer spells that are
available for you to cast, choosing from the
artificer spell list. When you do so, choose a
number of artificer spells equal to your
Intelligence modifier + half your artificer level,
rounded down (minimum of one spell). The
spells must be of a level for which you have spell
slots.

For example, if you are a 5th-level artificer,
you have four 1st-level and two 2nd-level spell
slots.

Artificer Specialists
Artificers pursue a variety of disciplines. Here are two specialist options you can choose from at 3rd level: the Alchemist and the Artillerist.

Alchemist
An Alchemist is an expert at combining exotic reagents to produce mystical effects. Among artificers, members of this subclass are the greatest healers, as well as the ones most adept at wielding dangerous chemicals.

Tools of the Trade
By the time you adopt this specialty at 3rd level, you’re deeply familiar with employing its tools.
Proficiencies. You gain proficiency with alchemist’s supplies and the herbalism kit, assuming you don’t already have them. You also gain alchemist’s supplies and an herbalism kit for free—the result of tinkering you’ve done as you’ve prepared for this specialization.
Crafting. If you craft a magic item in the potion category, it takes you a quarter of the normal time, and it costs you half as much of the usual gold.

Alchemist Spells
Starting at 3rd level, you always have certain spells prepared after you reach particular levels in this class, as shown in the Alchemist Spells table. These spells count as artificer spells for you, but they don’t count against the number of artificer spells you prepare.
Alchemist Spells
Artificer Level   Spell
3rd                 purify food and drink, ray of sickness
5th                 Melf’s acid arrow, web
9th                 create food and water, stinking cloud
13th               blight, death ward
17th               cloudkill, raise dead

Alchemical Homunculus
At 3rd level, you learn ancient methods for magically creating a special homunculus that is formed by alchemical substances.
Whenever you finish a long rest and your alchemist’s supplies are with you, you can form this homunculus in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of you. If you already have a homunculus from this feature, the first one immediately dies. The homunculus is friendly to you and your companions, and it obeys your commands. See this creature’s game statistics in the Alchemical Homunculus stat block. You determine the homunculus’s appearance, which includes wings and bits of alchemical equipment. Some alchemists prefer mechanical-looking birds, whereas others like winged vials or miniature cauldrons.
In combat, the homunculus shares your initiative count, but it takes its turn immediately after yours. The only action it takes on its turn is the Dodge action, unless you take a bonus action on your turn to command it to take one of the actions in its stat block or to take the Dash, Disengage, or Help action.
If the mending spell is cast on it, it regains 2d6 hit points. If it has died within the last hour, you can use your alchemist’s supplies as an action to revive it, provided you are within 5 feet of it and you expend a spell slot of 1st level or higher. The homunculus returns to life with all its hit points restored.

Ritual Casting
You can cast an artificer spell as a ritual if that spell has the ritual tag and you have the spell prepared.

Artificer Spell List
Cantrips (0 Level):
- acid splash
- dancing lights
- fire bolt
- guidance
- light
- mage hand
- mending
- message
- poison spray
- prestidigitation
- ray of frost
- resistance
- shocking grasp
- spare the dying
- thorn whip

1st Level:
- alarm (ritual)
- arcane weapon (see the end of the document)
- cure wounds
- detect magic (ritual)
- disguise self
- expeditious retreat
- false life
- grease
- identify (ritual)
- jump
- longstrider
- sanctuary
- shield of faith

2nd Level:
- aid
- alter self
- arcane lock
- blur
- continual flame
- darkvision
- enhance ability
- enlarge/reduce
- heat metal
- invisibility
- lesser restoration
- levitate
- magic mouth (ritual)
- magic weapon
- protection from poison
- rope trick
- see invisibility
- spider climb

3rd Level:
- blink
- dispel magic
- elemental weapon
- fly
- gaseous form
- glyph of warding
- haste
- protection from energy
- revivify
- water breathing (ritual)
- water walk (ritual)

4th Level:
- arcane eye
- fabricate
- freedom of movement
- Leomund’s secret chest
- Mordenkainen’s faithful hound
- Mordenkainen’s private sanctum
- Otiluke’s resilient sphere
- stone shape
- stoneskin

5th Level:
- animate objects
- Bigby’s hand
- creation
- greater restoration
- wall of stone

The Magic of Artifice
As an artificer, you use tools when you cast your spells. When describing your spellcasting, think about how you’re using a tool to perform the spell effect. If you cast cure wounds using alchemist’s supplies, you could be quickly producing a salve. If you cast it using tinker’s tools, you might have a miniature mechanical spider that binds wounds. When you cast poison spray, you could fling foul chemicals or use a wand that spits venom. The effect of the spell is the same as for a spellcaster of any other class, but your method of spellcasting is special.

Infuse Item
At 2nd level, you gain the ability to imbue mundane items with certain magical infusions. The magic items you create with this feature are effectively prototypes of permanent items.

Infusions Known
When you gain this feature, pick two artificer infusions to learn, choosing from the “Artificer Infusions” section at the end of the class’s description. You learn additional infusions of your choice when you reach certain levels in this class, as shown in the Infusions Known column of the Artificer table. Whenever you gain a level in this class, you can replace one of the artificer infusions you learned with a new one.

Infusing an Item
Whenever you finish a long rest, you can touch a nonmagical object and imbue it with one of your artificer infusions, turning it into a magic item. An infusion works on only certain kinds of objects, as specified in the infusion’s description. If the item requires attunement, you can attune yourself to it the instant you infuse the item, or you can forgo attunement so that someone else can attune to the item. If you decide to attune to the item later, you must do so using the normal process for attunement (see “Attunement” in the Dungeon Master’s Guide, page 136). Your infusion remains in an item indefinitely, but when you die, the infusion vanishes after a number of days have passed equal to your Intelligence modifier (minimum of 1 day). The infusion also vanishes if you give up your knowledge of the infusion for another one. You can infuse more than one nonmagical object at the end of a long rest; the maximum number of objects appears in the Infused Items column of the Artificer table. You must touch each of the objects, and each of your infusions can be in only one object at a time. If you try to exceed your maximum number of infusions, the oldest infusion immediately ends, and then the new infusion applies.

Artificer Specialist
At 3rd level, you choose the type of specialist you are: Alchemist or Artillerist, each of which is detailed at the end of the class’s description. Your choice grants you features at 3rd level and again at 6th and 14th level.

Variant: Crafting
An artificer subclass makes you more efficient at crafting certain items. The feature you get from your subclass works whether you’re using the crafting rules in the Player’s Handbook, Dungeon Master’s Guide, or Xanathar’s Guide to Everything.

Tool Expertise
Starting at 3rd level, your proficiency bonus is doubled for any ability check you make that uses your proficiency with a tool.

Ability Score Improvement
When you reach 4th, 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature.

Arcane Armament
Starting at 5th level, you can attack twice, rather than once, whenever you take the Attack action on your turn, but one of the attacks must be made with a magic weapon, the magic of which you use to propel the attack.

The Right Cantrip for the Job
At 10th level, you gain the ability to make sure you have the right magical tool for a job. Whenever you finish a short or long rest, you can replace one of the artificer cantrips you know with another cantrip from the artificer spell list.

Spell-Storing Item
When you reach 18th level, you learn how to store a spell in an object for repeated use. Whenever you finish a long rest, you can touch one simple or martial weapon or an item that you can use as a spellcasting focus and store a spell in it, choosing one 1st- or 2nd-level spell from the artificer spell list that requires 1 action to cast (you don’t need to have the spell prepared). With the object in hand, a creature can take an action to produce the spell’s effect from it, using your spellcasting ability modifier. The spell stays in the object until it has been used a number of times equal to twice your Intelligence modifier (minimum of twice) or until you use this feature again.

Soul of Artifice
At 20th level, your understanding of magic items is unmatched, allowing you to mingle your soul with items linked to you. You can attune to up to six magic items at once. In addition, you gain a +1 bonus to all saving throws per magic item you are currently attuned to.

Artificer Specialists
Artificers pursue a variety of disciplines. Here are two specialist options you can choose from at 3rd level: the Alchemist and the Artillerist.

Alchemist
An Alchemist is an expert at combining exotic reagents to produce mystical effects. Among artificers, members of this subclass are the greatest healers, as well as the ones most adept at wielding dangerous chemicals.

Tools of the Trade
By the time you adopt this specialty at 3rd level, you’re deeply familiar with employing its tools.

Proficiencies. You gain proficiency with alchemist’s supplies and the herbalism kit, assuming you don’t already have them. You also gain alchemist’s supplies and an herbalism kit for free—the result of tinkering you’ve done as you’ve prepared for this specialization.

Crafting. If you craft a magic item in the potion category, it takes you a quarter of the normal time, and it costs you half as much of the usual gold.

Alchemist Spells
Starting at 3rd level, you always have certain spells prepared after you reach particular levels in this class, as shown in the Alchemist Spells table. These spells count as artificer spells for you, but they don’t count against the number of artificer spells you prepare.

Alchemist Spells
Artificer Level | Spells
3rd | purify food and drink, ray of sickness
5th | Melf’s acid arrow, web
9th | create food and water, stinking cloud
13th | blight, death ward
17th | cloudkill, raise dead

Alchemical Homunculus
At 3rd level, you learn ancient methods for magically creating a special homunculus that is formed by alchemical substances.

Whenever you finish a long rest and your alchemist’s supplies are with you, you can form this homunculus in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of you. If you already have a homunculus from this feature, the first one immediately dies.

The homunculus is friendly to you and your companions, and it obeys your commands. See this creature’s game statistics in the Alchemical Homunculus stat block. You determine the homunculus’s appearance, which includes wings and bits of alchemical equipment. Some alchemists prefer mechanical-looking birds, whereas others like winged vials or miniature cauldrons.

In combat, the homunculus shares your initiative count, but it takes its turn immediately after yours. The only action it takes on its turn is the Dodge action, unless you take a bonus action on your turn to command it to take one of the actions in its stat block or to take the Dash, Disengage, or Help action.

If the mending spell is cast on it, it regains 2d6 hit points. If it has died within the last hour, you can use your alchemist’s supplies as an action to revive it, provided you are within 5 feet of it and you expend a spell slot of 1st level or higher. The homunculus returns to life with all its hit points restored.

Alchemical Homunculus
Tiny construct, neutral
Armor Class 13 (natural armor)
Hit Points equal to five times your level in this class + your Intelligence modifier
Speed 20 ft., fly 30 ft.
STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA
4 (-3) 15 (+2) 11 (+0) 10 (+0) 10 (+0) 7 (-2)
Skills Perception +4, Stealth +4

Damage Immunities acid, poison
Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, poisoned
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10
Languages understands the languages you speak

Might of the Master: The following numbers increase by 1 when your proficiency bonus increases by 1: the homunculus’s skill bonuses and the bonuses to hit and damage of its Acidic Spittle.

Actions (Require Your Bonus Action)
Acidic Spittle: Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, range 30 ft., one target you can see. Hit: 1d6 + 2 acid damage.

Alchemical Salve (3/Day): The homunculus produces a salve and touches one creature you designate. The target receives one of the following magical benefits of your choice:
- Buoyancy: The target gains a flying speed of 10 feet for 10 minutes.
- Inspiration: The target gains advantage on certain ability checks in the next hour. The target chooses the checks before or after rolling. The magic runs out after the target has used it on a number of checks equal to your Intelligence modifier (minimum of 1).
- Resilience: The target gains a number of temporary hit points equal to 2d6 + your Intelligence modifier.

Alchemical Mastery
At 6th level, your command of magical chemicals has become masterful, enhancing the healing and damage you create through them. When you cast a spell using your alchemist’s supplies as the spellcasting focus, you gain a bonus to one roll of the spell. That roll must restore hit points or be a damage roll that deals acid or poison damage, and the bonus equals your Intelligence modifier (minimum of +1).

In addition, you can cast lesser restoration without expending a spell slot, provided you use alchemist’s supplies as the spellcasting focus. You can do so a number of times per day equal to your Intelligence modifier (minimum of once).

Chemical Savant
By 14th level, you have been exposed to so many chemicals and unlocked their secrets that they pose little risk to you, and you can use them to quickly end certain ailments. You gain resistance to acid damage and poison damage, and you are now immune to the poisoned condition.

In addition, you can cast greater restoration once without expending a spell slot and without providing the material component, provided you use alchemist’s supplies as the spellcasting focus. You regain the ability to do so when you finish a long rest.

Artillerist
An Artillerist specializes in using magic to create explosions and defensive positions, as well as magic-infused sidearms—especially wands—that can be used on the battlefield. Artillerists were valued by all the armies of the Last War.

Tools of the Trade
By the time you adopt this specialty at 3rd level, you’re deeply familiar with employing its tools.
Proficiencies: You gain proficiency with smith’s tools and woodcarver’s tools, assuming you don’t already have them. You also gain those tools for free—the result of tinkering you’ve done as you’ve prepared for this specialization.

In addition, you gain the ability to use rods, staffs, and wands as spellcasting focuses for your artificer spells. You also gain a nonmagical, wooden wand for free, which you’ve carved in your spare time.

Crafting: If you craft a magic item in the wand category, it takes you a quarter of the normal time, and it costs you half as much of the usual gold.

Artillerist Spells
Starting at 3rd level, you always have certain spells prepared after you reach particular levels in this class, as shown in the Alchemist Spells table. These spells count as artificer spells for you, but they don’t count against the number of artificer spells you prepare.

Artillerist Spells
Artificer Level Spell
3rd shield, thunderwave
5th scorching ray, shatter
9th fireball, wind wall
13th ice storm, wall of fire
17th cone of cold, wall of force

Arcane Turret
At 3rd level, you learn how to create a magical turret. With your smith’s tools in hand, you can take an action to magically summon a Medium turret in an unoccupied space on a horizontal surface within 5 feet of you.

The turret is a magical object that occupies its space and that has crablike legs. It has an AC of 18 and a number of hit points equal to five times your artificer level. It is immune to poison damage, psychic damage, and all conditions. If it is forced to make an ability check or a saving throw, treat all its ability scores as 10 (+0). If the mending spell is cast on it, it regains 2d6 hit points. It disappears if it is reduced to 0 hit points or after 10 minutes. You can dismiss it early as an action.

When you summon the turret, you decide which type it is, choosing from the options on the Arcane Turrets table. On each of your turns, you can take a bonus action to cause the turret to activate if you are within 60 feet of it. As part of the same action, you can direct the turret to walk or climb up to 15 feet to an unoccupied space.

You can summon a turret once for free and must finish a long rest before doing so again. You can also summon the turret by expending a spell slot of 1st level or higher. If you summon a second turret, the first turret disappears.

As an action, you can command your turret to detonate if you are within 60 feet of it. Doing so destroys the turret and forces each creature within 10 feet of it to make a Dexterity saving throw against your spell save DC, taking 3d6 force damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one.

Defender: The turret emits a burst of positive energy that grants itself and each creature of your choice within 10 feet of it a number of temporary hit points equal to 1d8 + your Intelligence modifier (minimum of +1).

Wand Prototype: By 6th level, you now regularly experiment with channeling different types of magic through wands. Whenever you finish a long rest and your woodcarver’s tools are with you, you can touch a nonmagical, wooden wand and turn it into a magic item. When you do so, you invest it with one artificer cantrip of your choice—even one you don’t know—that has a casting time of 1 action. As an action, you can cause the magic wand to produce the cantrip, using your spellcasting ability modifier (other creatures are unable to use the wand’s magic). The wand loses this magic when you finish your next long rest. Any damage roll you make for a cantrip in the wand gains a bonus equal to your Intelligence modifier (minimum of +1). When you reach 14th level in this class, you can invest the wand with two cantrips at the end of a long rest.

Fortified Position: Starting at 14th level, you’re a master at conjuring a well-defended emplacement. You and your allies have half cover while within 10 feet of a turret you create with Arcane Turret, as a result of a shimmering field of magical protection that the turret emits. You can also now summon a second turret for free and must finish a long rest before doing so again. If you summon the second turret while the first is still present, the first one doesn’t disappear, and each turret can be of a different type (if you summon a third turret, the first turret vanishes). Moreover, you can use one bonus action to activate both turrets.

Artificer Infusions: Artificers have invented numerous magical infusions that rapidly create magic items. To the untrained, artificers seem like wonderworkers, accomplishing in hours what others need weeks to complete. The description of each infusion tells you the type of item that can receive it. The description also tells you if the resulting magic item requires attunement. Some infusions specify a minimum artificer level. You can’t learn such an infusion until you are at least that level. Unless an infusion’s description says otherwise, you can’t learn the infusion more than once.

Boots of the Winding Path
Prerequisite: 4th-level artificer
Item: A pair of boots (requires attunement)
While wearing these boots, a creature can teleport up to 15 feet as a bonus action to an unoccupied space the creature can see. The creature must have occupied that space at some point during the current turn.

Enhanced Defense
Item: A suit of armor or a shield
A creature gains a +1 bonus to Armor Class while wearing (armor) or wielding (shield) the infused item. The bonus increases to +2 when you reach 12th level in this class.

Enhanced Weapon
Item: A simple or martial weapon
This magic weapon grants a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with it. The bonus increases to +2 when you reach 12th level in this class.

Many-Handed Pouch
Prerequisite: 4th-level artificer
Item: 2–5 pouches
The infused pouches all share one interdimensional space of the same capacity as a single pouch. Thus, reaching into any of the pouches allows access to the same storage space. A pouch operates as long as it is within 100 miles of another one of the pouches; the pouch is otherwise empty and won’t accept any contents. If this infusion ends, the items stored in the shared space move into one of the pouches, determined at random. The rest of the pouches become empty.

Radiant Weapon
Prerequisite: 8th-level artificer
Item: A simple or martial weapon (requires attunement)
This magic weapon grants a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with it. While holding it, the wielder can take a bonus action to cause it to shed bright light in a 30-foot radius and dim light for an additional 30 feet. The wielder can extinguish the light as a bonus action. As a reaction immediately after being hit by a melee attack, the wielder can cause the attacker to be blinded until the end of the attacker’s next turn, unless the attacker succeeds on a Constitution saving throw against your spell save DC. Once used, this reaction can’t be used again until the wielder finishes a short or long rest.

Replicate Magic Item
Prerequisite: See below
Using this infusion, you replicate a particular magic item. You can learn this infusion multiple times; each time you do so, choose a different magic item that you can make with it, picking from the Replicable Magic Items tables below. If a table has a level in its title, you must be at least that level in this class to choose an item from the table. In the tables, an item’s entry tells you whether the item requires attunement. See the item’s description in the Dungeon Master’s Guide for more information about it, including the type of object required for its making.

Replicable Magic Items
Magic Item Attunement
Alchemy jug No
Bag of holding No
Cap of water breathing No
Cloak of the manta ray No
Goggles of night No
Lantern of revealing No
Rope of climbing No
Sending stones No
Wand of magic detection No
Wand of secrets No

Replicable Magic Items (12th-Level Artificer)
Magic Item Attunement
Boots of elvenkind No
Boots of striding and springing Yes
Boots of the winterlands Yes
Cloak of elvenkind Yes
Cloak of protection Yes
Eyes of charming Yes
Eyes of the eagle Yes
Gauntlets of ogre power Yes
Gloves of missile snaring Yes
Gloves of swimming and climbing Yes
Gloves of thievery No
Hat of disguise Yes
Headband of intellect Yes
Helm of telepathy Yes
Medallion of thoughts Yes
Periapt of wound closure Yes
Pipes of haunting No
Pipes of the sewers Yes
Quiver of Ehlonna No
Ring of jumping Yes
Ring of mind shielding Yes
Ring of water walking No
Slippers of spider climbing Yes
Winged boots Yes

Replicable Magic Items (16th-Level Artificer)
Item Attunement
Amulet of health Yes
Belt of hill giant strength Yes
Boots of levitation Yes
Boots of speed Yes
Bracers of defense Yes
Cloak of the bat Yes
Dimensional shackles No
Gem of seeing Yes
Horn of blasting No
Ring of free action Yes
Ring of protection Yes
Ring of the ram Yes

Resistant Armor
Prerequisite: 8th-level artificer
Item: A suit of armor (requires attunement)
While wearing this armor, a creature has resistance to one of the following damage types, which you choose when you infuse the item: acid, cold, fire, force, lightning, necrotic, poison, psychic, radiant, or thunder.

Returning Weapon
Item: A simple or martial weapon with the thrown property
This magic weapon grants a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with it, and it returns to the wielder’s hand immediately after it is used to make a ranged attack.

New Spell: The artificer spell list contains a new spell: arcane weapon.

Arcane Weapon
1st-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You channel arcane energy into one simple or martial weapon you’re holding, and choose one damage type: acid, cold, fire, lightning, poison, or thunder. Until the spell ends, you deal an extra 1d6 damage of the chosen type to any target you hit with the weapon. If the weapon isn’t magical, it becomes a magic weapon for the spell’s duration. As a bonus action, you can change the damage type, choosing from the options above.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, you can maintain your concentration on the spell for up to 8 hours.

Optional Rule: Multiclassing
If your group uses the optional rule on multiclassing in the Player’s Handbook (p. 163), here’s what you need to know if you choose artificer as one of your classes.
Ability Score Minimum: As a multiclass character, you must have at least an Intelligence score of 13 to take a level in this class.
Proficiencies Gained: If artificer isn’t your initial class, here are the proficiencies you gain when you take your first level as an artificer: light armor, medium armor, shields, thieves’ tools, tinker’s tools.
Extra Attack: The Arcane Armament feature doesn’t give you an additional attack if you also have the Extra Attack feature.
Spell Slots: Add half your levels (rounded down) in the artificer class to the appropriate levels from other classes to determine your available spell slots.