DUNGEONS &DRAGONS
Monsters of the multiverse
MORDENKAINEN PRESENTS MONSTERS OF THE MULTIVERSE
Discl aimer: We asked the wizard Mordenkainen to wr ite a hu morous disclaimer fo r t hisbook. We re ce ived this response: "T he day I sta rt writing f rivolous disclaimers for gamemanuals is the day I retire fro m wizardry and abandon all self respect ." Mordenkainen's ri-val wizard Tasha appa ren t ly inte rcepted ou r re quest and sent us this note: "Morde nkainenlost his sense ofhumorsomewhere between the City of Greyhawk and the As t ral Plane.Keep your chins up, my deare st ones. The multiverse is filled with ho rr ors, many of whichare de tailed in this boo k. Marshal your laughter and a fe w good spells. If we 're goi ng to bedevo u red, be tt er to fa ce the darkness with a smile .

"The multiverse of DUN GEONS & DRAGONS brimswith peril, and many of the greatest dangers aremonsters. A companion to th e Monster Manual, thisbook collects monster s from man y different plan esof existence, eac h creatur e read y to imperil D&D he-roes of different levels. The book also includes gamesta ti stics for nonplay er c hara cters, who may assistor oppose the h eroes, and a n a rray of fantasticalrac es for players to consider for their characters.The monsters and fantastical races in the follow-ing chapte rs are accompanied by the occasionalcommen ts of the mighty wizard Mordenkainen,one of the mo st lea rn ed ma ges of the D&D world ofGreyhawk. The arc hm age Tasha , Morde nkainen'sfriendly rival , interjects as well.All together, the monsters, nonplayer charac ters,and fantastical races he rein provide a ho st of newfriends and foes to populate your D&D worlds.4 USING THIS BOOKWHAT You'LL FIND WITHINChapter 1, "Fantastical Races," pr esen ts over 30ra ce options for player characters, co mplementingthe options in the Player's Handbook and otherD&D books. Th ese races debuted elsew hereand app ea r all toge th er for the first time here,eac h of th em revised to fit into the c urr ent stateof the game.Chapter 2, "Bestiary," cont ains over 250 monst ersand NPCs, each one represented by a stat blockand story text. Wh en you're preparing to run anadve nture as the DM, consider spr inkling thesecr eat ur es into your gam es , mi xi ng them with th emonst ers and NPCs from th e Monster Manual.Th e cr eat ures in this c hapt er fit sea ml ess ly withthe ones yo u u se from ot he r D&D books.Appendix, "Monster Lists," makes it easy for youto find the right stat blocks for yo ur adventures.This appe ndix lists th e book's monsters a ndNPCs by cr eature typ e, cha ll enge rating, andenvironment.CHAPTER 1FANTASTICAL ACESATHERING TOGETHER FANTASTICAL RACESfro m thro ughout the D&D multiverse,this chap t er offers the following races forplayer characters, supplementing the raceoptions in the Player's Handbook:Aarakocra Firbolg H arengo n Shadar-ka iAasimar Genasi, Air H obgob li n ShifterBugb ea r Genasi, Eart h Ke n ku TabaxiCe nta ur Ge n as i, Fire Kobo ld Tort leChangeli ng Genasi, Water Lizardfo lk TritonDeep Gnome Githyanki Minotaur Yuan -tiDuergar Githzerai OreEladrin Goblin SatyrFairy Go li ath Sea El fMany of these races are based on creatures thatappear in the Monster Manual or the bestiary of thisbook. Consult with your DM to see whether an op-tion here is appropriate for your campaign.If you do use a race in this chapter, first read the"C reating Your Character" section below.CREATING YOUR CHARACTERAt 1st level, you choose whether your character is amember of the human race or of a fantastical race.If you select a fantastical race in this chapter, followthese additional rules during character creation.ABILITY SCORE INCREASESWhen determining your character's ability scores,increase one score by 2 and increase a differentscore by 1, or increase three different scores by 1.Follow this rule regardless of the method you use todetermine the scores , such as rolling or point buy.The "Quick Build" section for your character's classoffers suggestions on which scores to increase. Youcan follow those suggestions or ignore them, butyou can't raise any of your scores above 20.LANGUAGESYour character can speak, read, and writ e Commonand one other language that you and your DM agreeis appropriate for the character. The Player 's Hand-book offers a list of languages to choose from. TheDM is fr ee to modify that list for a campaign.CHAPTER 1 I FANTASTICAL RACES 5•CREATURE TYPEEvery creature in D&D, including each player char-acter, has a special tag in the rules that identifiesthe type of creature they are. Most player charactersare of the Humanoid type. A race in this chaptertells you what your character's creature type is.Here's a list of the game's creature types in al-phabetical order: Aberration, Beast, Celestial,Construct, Dragon, Elemental, Fey, Fiend, Giant,Humanoid, Monstrosity, Ooze, Plant, Undead.These types don't have rules themselves, but somerules in the game affect creatures of certain types indifferent ways. For example, the cure wounds spelldoesn't work on a Construct or an Undead.LIFE SPANThe typical life span of a player character in theD&D multiverse is about a century, assuming thecharacter doesn't meet a violent end on an adven-ture. Members of some races, such as dwarves andelves, can live for centuries. If typical members of arace in this book can live longer than a century, thatfact is mentioned in the race's description.HEIGHT AND WEIGHTPlayer characters, regardless of race, typically fallinto the same ranges of height and weight that hu-mans have in our world. If you'd like to determineyour character's height or weight randomly, consultthe Random Height and Weight table in the Player'sHandbook, and choose the row in the table that bestrepresents the build you imagine for your character.6 CHAPTER 1 I FANTASTICAL RACESAARAKOCRAA winged people who originated on the ElementalPlane of Air, aarakocra soar through the sky wher-ever they wander. The first aarakocra served theWind Dukes of Aaqa- mighty beings of air-andwere imbued with a measure of their masters'power over winds. Their descendants still commandechoes of that power.From below, aarakocra look like large birds andthus are sometimes called birdfolk. Only when theyroost on a branch or walk across the ground is theirHumanoid nature clear. Standing upright, aarako-cra are typically about 5 feet tall, and they have long,narrow legs that taper to sharp talons. Featherscover their bodies-usually red, orange, yellow,brown, or gray. Their heads are also avian, often re-sembling those of parrots or eagles.AARAKOCRA TRAITSAs an aarakocra, you have the following racial traits.Creature Type. You are a Humanoid.Size. Your size is Medium.Speed. Your walking speed is 30 feet.Flight. Because of your wings, you have a fly-ing speed equal to your walking speed. You can'tuse this flying speed if you're wearing medium orheavy armor.Talons. You have talons that you can use to makeunarmed strikes. When you hit with them, the strikedeals ld6 + your Strength modifier slashing dam -age, instead of the bludgeoning damage normal foran unarmed strike.Wind Caller. Starting at 3rd level, you can castthe gust of wind spell with this trait, without requir-ing a material component. Once you cast the spellwith this trait, you can't do so again until you finisha long rest. You can also cast the spell using anyspell slots you have of 2nd level or higher.Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma is your spell-casting ability for it when you cast gust of wind withthis trait (choose when you select this race).AASIMARWhether descended from a celestial being or in-fused with heavenly power, aasimar are mortalswho carry a spark of the Upper Planes within theirsouls. They can fan that spark to bring light, easewounds, and unleash the fury of the heavens.Aasimar can arise among any population of mor-tals. They resemble their parents, but they live forup to 160 years and often have features that hint attheir celestial heritage. These often begin subtle andbecome more obvious when the aasimar gains theability to reveal their full celestial nature. The Aasi-mar Celestial Features table has examples you canchoose or use as inspiration to create your own.AASIMAR CELESTIAL FEATURESd6 Celestial FeatureA dusting of metallic, white, or charcoal freckles2 Metallic, luminous, or dark eyes3 Starkly colored hair4 An unusual hue tinting your shadow5 A ghostly halo crowning your head6 Rainbows gleaming on your skinAASIMAR TRAITSAs an aasimar, you have the following racial traits.Creature Type. You are a Humanoid.Size. You are Medium or Small. You choose thesize when you select this race.Speed. Your walking speed is 30 feet.Celestial Resistance. You have resistance tonecrotic damage and radiant damage.Darkvision. You can see in dim light within 60feet of you as if it were bright light and in darknessas if it were dim light. You discern colors in thatdarkness only as shades of gray.Healing Hands. As an action, you can touch acreature and roll a number of d4s equal to yourproficiency bonus. The creature regains a numberof hit points equal to the total rolled. Once you usethis trait, you can't use it again until you finish along rest.Light Bearer. You know the light cantrip. Cha-risma is your spellcasting ability for it.Celestial Revelation. When you reach 3rd level,choose one of the revelation options below. There-after, you can use a bonus action to unleash thecelestial energy within yourself, gaining the benefitsof that revelation. Your transformation lasts for 1minute or until you end it as a bonus action. Onceyou transform using your revelation below, you can'tuse it again until you finish a long rest:Necrotic Shroud. Your eyes briefly become poolsof darkness, and ghostly, flightless wings sproutfrom your back temporarily. Creatures other thanyour allies within 10 feet of you that can see youmust succeed on a Charisma saving throw (DC 8+ your proficiency bonus + your Charisma mod-ifier) or become frightened of you until the endof your next turn. Until the transformation ends ,once on each of your turns, you can deal extranecrotic damage to one target when you deal dam-age to it with an attack or a spell. The extra dam-age equals your proficiency bonus.Radiant Consumption . Searing light temporarilyradiates from your eyes and mouth. For the dura-tion, you shed bright light in a 10-foot radius anddim light for an additional 10 feet, and at the endof each of your turns, each creature within 10 feetof you takes radiant damage equal to your profi-ciency bonus. Until the transformation ends, onceon each of your turns, you can deal extra radiantdamage to one target when you deal damage to itwith an attack or a spell. The extra damage equa lsyour proficiency bonus.Radiant Soul. Two luminous , spectral wings sproutfrom your back temporarily. Until the transfor-mation ends, you have a flying speed equal toyour walking speed, and once on each of yourturns, you can deal extra radiant damage to onetarget when you deal damage to it with an attackor a spell. The extra damage equals your profi-ciency bonus.CHAPTER 1 I FANTASTICAL RACES 7BUGBEARNeither bugs nor bears, bugbears are the hulkingcousins of goblins and hobgoblins. With roots in theFeywild, early bugbears resided in hidden places , inhard-to-reach and shadowed spaces. Long ago andfrom out of the corner of your eye, they came to theMaterial Plane, urged to spread throughout the mul-tiverse by the conquering god Maglubiyet. Centurieslater, they still bear a fey gift for lurking just out ofsight , and many of them have sneaked away fromthat god's influence.They are long of limb and covered in coars e hair,with wedge-shaped ears and pointed teeth . Despitetheir formidable build, bugbears are quiet skulkers,thanks to a fey magic that allows them to hide inspaces seemingly too small for them .BUGBEAR TRAITSAs a bugbear, you have the following racial traits.Creature Type. You are a Humanoid. You are alsoconsider ed a goblinoid for any prerequisite or effectthat requires you to be a goblinoid.Size. Your size is Medium.8 CHAPT_ER 1 I FANTASTICAL RACESSpeed. Your walking speed is 30 feet.Darkvision. You can see in dim light within 60feet of you as if it were bright light and in darknessas if it were dim light. You discern colors in thatdarkness only as shades of gray.Fey Ancestry. You have advantage on savingthrows you make to avoid or end the charmed condi-tion on yourself.Long-Limbed. When you make a melee attackon your turn, your reach for it is 5 feet greaterthan normal.Powerful Build. You count as one size largerwhen determining your carrying capacity and theweight you can push , drag, or lift.Sneaky. You are proficient in the Stealth skill.In addition, without squeezing , you can movethrough and stop in a space large enough for aSmall creature.Surprise Attack. If you hit a creature with an at-tack roll, the creature takes an extra 2d6 damage ifit hasn't taken a turn yet in the current combat.CENTAURCentaurs gallop throughout the multiverse and tracetheir origins to many different realms. The centaurspresented here hail from the Feywild and mysticallyresonate with the natural world. From the waist up,they resemble e lv es, displaying all the elf varieties ofskin tone. From the waist down, they have the bod-ies of horses.CENTAUR TRAITSAs a centaur, you have the following racial traits.Creature Type. You are a Fey.Size. Your size is Medium.Speed. Your walking speed is 40 feet.Charge. If you move at least 30 feet straight to-ward a target and then hit it with a melee weaponattack on the same turn, you can immediately followthat attack with a bonus action, making one attackagainst the target with your hooves.Equine Build. You count as one size larger whendetermining your carrying capacity and the weightyou can push or drag.In addition, any climb that requires hands and feetis especially difficult for you because of your equinelegs. When you make such a climb, each foot ofmovement costs you 4 extra feet instead of the nor-mal 1 ext ra foot.Hooves. You have hooves that you can use tomake unarmed strikes. When you hit with them, thestrike deals ld6 + your Strength modifier bludgeon-ing damage, instead of the bludgeoning damage nor-mal for an unarmed strike.Natural Affinity. Your fey connection to naturegives you an intuitive connection to the naturalworld and the animals within it. You thereforehave proficiency in one of the following skills ofyour choice: Animal Handling, Medicine, Nature,or Survival.CHAPTER 1 [ FANTASTICAL RACES 9CHANGELINGWith ever-changing appearances, changelings re-side in many societies undetected. Each changelingcan supernaturally adopt any face they like. Forsome changelings, a new face is only a disguise. Forother changelings, a new face may reveal an aspectof their soul.The first changelings in the multiverse appearedin the Feywild, and the wondrous, mutable essenceof that plane lingers in changelings today -e ven inthose changelings who have never set foot in the feyrealm. Each changeling decides how to use theirshape-shifting ability, channeling either the peril orthe joy of the Feywild. Sometimes they adopt newforms for the sake of mis chi ef or malice, and othertimes they don a n ew identity to right wrongs or de-light the downtrodden.IO CHAPTER 1 I FANTASTICAL RACESIn their true form, changelings appear faded, theirfeatures almost devoid of detail. It is rare to see achangeling in that form, for a typical changelingchanges their shape the way others might changeclothes. A casual shape -one created on the spurof the moment, with no depth or history- is calleda mask. A mask can be used to express a mood orto serve a specific purpose and then might neverbe used again. However, many changelings developidentiti es that have more depth, crafting whole per-sonas complete with histories and beliefs. A change-ling adventurer might have personas for manysituations, including negotiation, investigation,and combat.Personas can be shared by multiple change-lings; a community might be home to three healerchangelings, with whoever is on duty adopting thepersona of Andrea, the gentle physician. Personascan even be passed down through a family, allowinga younger changeling to take advantage of contactsestablished by the persona's previous users.CHANGELING TRAITSAs a changeling, you have the following racial traits.Creature Type. You are a Fey.Size. You are Medium or Small. You choose thesize when you select this race.Speed. Your walking speed is 30 feet.Changeling Instincts. Thanks to your connectionto the fey realm , you gain proficiency with two of thefollowing skills of your choice: Deception, Insight,Intimidation, Performance, or Persuasion.Shapechanger. As an action, you can change yourappearance and your voice. You determine the spe-cifics of the changes, including your coloration, hairlength, and sex. You can also adjust your height andweight and can change your size between Mediumand Small. You can make yourself appear as a mem-ber of another race, though none of your game sta-tistics change. You can't duplicate the appearanceof an individual you've never seen, and you mustadopt a form that has the same basic arrangementof limbs that you have. Your clothing and eq uipmentaren't c hang ed by this trait.You stay in the new form until you use an action toreve rt to your true form or until you die.DEEP GNOMEDeep gnomes, or svirfneblin, are natives of the Un-derdark and are suffus ed with that subterraneanrealm's magic. They can supernaturally ca mouflagethemselves , and their svirfneblin magic rendersthem difficult to locate. These abiliti es have enab ledthem to survive for generations among the perils ofthe Underdark.Like other gnomes, d eep gnomes can li ve for cen-turi es, up to 500 years.DEEP GNOME TRAITSAs a deep gnome, you have the fo ll owing ra-cial traits.Creature Type. You are a Humanoid. You are alsoconsidered a gnome for any prerequisite or effectthat requires you to be a gnome.Size. You a re Small.Speed. Yo ur walking speed is 30 feet.Darkvision. You can see in dim light within 120feet of you as if it were bright light a nd in darknessas if it were dim li gh t. You disce rn colors in thatd ar kn ess on ly as shades of gray.Gift of the Svirfneblin. Starting at 3rd level, youcan cast the disguise self spell with this trait. Start-ing at 5th level, you can also cast the nondetectionspell with it, withou t requiring a material compo-nent. Once you cast either of these spells with thistrait , you can't cas t that spell with it again until youfinish a long rest. You can a lso cast these spells us-ing spe ll slots you have of the appropriate level.Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma is your spell-casting ability for these spells when you cast themwith this trai t (choose when you select this race).Gnomish Magic Resistance. You have advantageon Intelligence, Wisdom , and Charisma savingthrows agains t spells.Svirfneblin Camouflage. When you make a Dex-terity (Stealth) check, you ca n make the ch ec k withadvantage. Yo u ca n u se this trait a numb er of timesequal to your proficiency bonus, a nd you regain a llexpended us es when yo u finish a long rest.CHAPTER 1 I FANTASTICAL RACES IIDUERGARDuergar are dwarves whose ancestors were trans-formed by centuries living in the deepest places ofthe Underdark. That chthonic realm is saturatedwith strange magical energy, and over generations,ear ly duergar absorbed traces of it. They were fur-ther altered when mind flayers and other Aberra-tions invaded and performed horrific experimentson them. Fueled by Underdark magic, those experi-ments left early duergar with psionic powers, whichhave been passed down to their descendants. Intime, they liberated themselves from their aberranttyrants and forged a new life for themselves in theUnderdark and beyond.Like other dwarves, duergar typically have a lifespan of 350 years.DUERGAR TRAITSAs a duergar, you have the following racial traits.Creature Type. You are a Humanoid. You are alsoconsidered a dwarf for any prerequisite or effect thatrequires you to be a dwarf.Size . You are Medium.Speed. Your walking speed is 30 feet.12 CHAPTER 1 I FANTASTICAL RACESDarkvision. You can see in dim light within 120feet of you as if it were bright light and in darknessas if it were dim light. You discern colors in thatdarkness only as shades of gray.Duergar Magic. Starting at 3rd level, you can castthe enlarge/reduce spell on yourself with this trait,without requiring a mat erial component. Starting at5th level, you can also cast the invisibility spell onyourself with this trait, without requiring a materialcomponent. Once you cast either of these spells withthis trait, you can't cast that spell with it again untilyou finish a long rest. You can also cast these spellsusing spell slots you have of the appropriate level.Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma is your spell-casting ability for these spells when you cast themwith this trait (choose when you select this race).Dwarven Resilience. You have advantage on sav-ing throws you make to avoid or end the poisonedcondition on yourself. You also have resistance topoison damage.Psionic Fortitude. You have advantage on savingthrows you make to avoid or end the charmed orstunned condition on yourself.ELADRINEladrin are elves of the Feywild , a re alm of perilousbeauty and boundless magic. Using that magic,eladrin can step from one pla ce to another in theblink of an eye, and each eladrin r es onates withemotions capt ured in the Feywi ld in the form ofseasons - affinities that affect the eladrin's mooda nd appearance. An eladrin 's season ca n c hange ,though some re main in one seaso n forever. Chooseyo ur seaso n or roll on the Eladrin S easo ns table.Your Trance trait lets you c hang e your season.Like othe r elves, eladrin ca n live to be over 750yea rs old.ELADRIN SEASONSd4 SeasonAutumn: peace and goodwill, when summer's har-vest is shared with all2 Winter: contemplation and dolor, when the vib rantenergy of the world slumbers3 Spring: cheerfulness and celebration , marked bymerriment and hope as winter's sorrow passes4 Summer: boldness and aggression, a time of un-fettered energy and calls to actionELADRIN TRAITSAs an eladrin, you have the fo ll owing racial traits.Creature Type. You a re a Humanoid . You are alsoconside red a n elf for any pr ere quisite or effect thatreq uir es you to be an e lf.Size. You are Medium .Speed. Your walking speed is 30 feet.Darkvision. You can see in dim light within 60feet of you as if it wer e bright light and in darknessas if it were dim light. You disc e rn colors in thatdarkness only as shades of gray.Fey Ancestry. You have advantage on savingthrows you mak e to avoid or e nd the cha rm ed condi-tion on yourself.Fey Step. As a bonus action , you ca n m ag ica llytele port up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space youca n see. You can use this tr a it a number of timesequ a l to your proficiency bonus , and you r eg ain allexpended us es when you fini s h a long r es t.When you r eac h 3rd level, your Fey Step gains anadditional effect based on your season; if the effectre quir es a saving throw, th e DC e quals 8 + yo ur pro-ficiency bonus + your Int elligence, Wisdom , or Cha-ri s ma modifier (c hoos e when you select this race):Autumn. Imm ediately after you us e your Fey Step ,up to two cr ea tures of your choice that you can seewithin 10 feet of you must succeed on a Wisdomsaving throw or be charmed by you for 1 minute,or until you or your companions d ea l any damag eto the creatures .Winter. When you use your Fey St ep, one cr ea tur eof your choice that you can see within 5 feet of youbefore you teleport must succeed on a Wisdomsav ing throw or be fri ght ened of you until the endof your next turn .Spring. When you us e your Fey Step , you ca n touchone willing creat ur e within 5 feet of you. Thatcre atur e then teleports inst ea d of you, appearingin an uno ccupied spac e of your choice that youcan see within 30 feet of you.Summer. Imm ediately after you us e yo ur Fey Step ,eac h cr eat ur e of your choi ce that you ca n seewithin 5 feet of you tak es fire damage eq ual toyour proficiency bonus.Keen Senses. You have proficiency in the P ercep-tion skill.Trance. You don't n eed to s lee p, a nd magic ca n'tput you to sleep. You can fini sh a long r es t in 4hours if you spend thos e hours in a tran celike medi-tation, during which you retain c ons ciousness.Wh enever you finish this trance, you ca n changeyo ur season, and you ca n ga in two proficiencies thatyou don't have, eac h one with a weapon or a tool ofyour choice se lec ted from the Player 's Handbook.You mystica lly acquire these proficiencies by draw-ing them from s hared elve n memory , a nd you retainthem until you finish your next long rest.CHAPTER 1 I FANTASTICAL RACES 13•14 CHAPTER I I FANTASTICAL RACESFAIRYThe Feywild is home to many fantastic peoples,including fairies. Fairies are a wee folk, but notnearly as much so as their pixie and sprite friends .The first fairies spoke Elvish, Goblin, or Sylvan, andencounters with human visitors prompted many ofthem to learn Common as well.Infused with the magic of the Feywild, most fair-ies look like Small elves with insectile wings , buteach fairy has a special physical characteristic thatsets the fairy apart. For your fairy, roll on the FeyCharacteristics table or choose an option from it.You're also free to come up with your own char -acteristic if none of the suggestions below fit yourcharacter.FEY CHARACTERISTICSd8 CharacteristicYour wings are like those of a bird.2 You have shimmering, multicolored skin.3 You have exceptionally large ears.4 A glittering mist constantly surrounds you .5 You have a small spectral horn on your forehead,like a little unicorn horn.6 Your legs are insectile .7 You smell like fresh brownies .8 A noticeable , harmless chill surrounds you.FAIRY TRAITSAs a fairy, you have the following racial traits.Creature Type. You are a Fey.Size. You are Small .Speed. Your walking speed is 30 feet.Fairy Magic. You know the druidcraft cantrip.Starting at 3rd level, you can cast the faerie firespell with this trait. Starting at 5th level, you canalso cast the enlarge/reduce spell with this trait.Once you cast faerie fire or enlarge/reduce with thistrait, you can't cast that spell with it again until youfinish a long rest. You can also cast either of thosespells using any spell slots you have of the appro-priate level.Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma is your spell-casting ability for these spells when you cast themwith this trait (c hoos e wh en you selec t this ra ce).Flight. B ec aus e of your wings , you have a fly-ing sp ee d equal to your walking sp eed. You can'tus e this flying sp ee d if you're w ea ring medium orheavy armor.FIRBOLGDistant cousins of giants, the first firbolgs wanderedthe primeval forests of the multiverse, and themagic of those forests entwined itself with the fir-bolgs' souls. Centuries later, that magic still thrumsinside a firbolg, even one who has never lived underthe boughs of a great forest.A firbolg's magic is an obscuring sort, which al-lowed their ancestors to pass through a forest with-out disturbing it. So deep is the connection betweena firbolg and the wild places of the world that theycan communicate with flora and fauna.Firbolgs can live up to 500 years.FIRBOLG TRAITSAs a firbolg, you have the following racial traits.Creature Type. You are a Humanoid.Size. You are Medium.Speed. Your walking speed is 30 feet.Firbolg Magic. You can cast the detect magic anddisguise self spells with this trait. When you use thisversion of disguise self, you can seem up to 3 feetshorter or taller. Once you cast either of these spellswith this trait, you can't cast that spell with it againuntil you finish a long rest. You can also cast thesespells using any spell slots you have.Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma is your spell-casting ability for these spells when you cast themwith this trait (choose when you select this race).Hidden Step. As a bonus action, you can magi-cally turn invisible until the start of your next turnor until you attack, make a damage roll, or forcesomeone to make a saving throw. You can use thistrait a number of tim es equa l to your proficiencybonus, and you regain all expended uses when youfinish a long rest.Powerful Build. You count as one size largerwhen determining your carrying capacity and theweight you can push, drag, or lift.Speech ofBeast and Leaf. Youhave the ability to com municate in a lim-ited manner with Beasts, Plants, andvegetation. They can understandthe meaning of your words,though you have no specialability to understand them inreturn. You have advantageon all Charismachecks you maketo influence them.Al t\ chiliJ., I let\rneiJ. tht\t plt\yi~~ hiiJ.e-t\~o.-1eek with o.ilt\ppet\ri~~ frbol~I iif.1,1~ b1,1t f1,1tile .CHAPTER 1 I FANTASTICAL RACES 15LEFT TO RIGHT: EARTH GENASI, WATER GENASI, FIRE GENASI, AND AIR GENASIGENAS!Tracing their ancestry to the genies of the ElementalPlanes, each genasi can tap into the power of one ofthe elements. Air, earth, fire, and water-these arethe four pillars of the Material Plane and the fourtypes of genasi. Some genasi are direct descendantsof a genie, while others were born to non-genasiparents who lived near a place suffused by a ge-nie's magic.A typical genasi has a life span of 120 years.AIR GENASI TRAITSAir genasi are descended from djinn, the genies ofthe Elemental Plane of Air. Embodying many of theairy traits of their otherworldly ancestors, air genasican draw upon their connection to the winds.Air genasi's skin tones include many shadesof blue, along with the full range of human skintones, with bluish or ashen casts. Sometimes theirskin is marked by lines that seem like cracks withbluish-white energy spilling out. An air genasi's hairmight blow in a phantom wind or be made entirelyof clouds or vapor.As an air genasi, you have the following traits.16 CHAPTER 1 I FANTASTICAL RACESCreature Type. You are a Humanoid.Size. You are Medium or Small. You choose thesize when you select this race.Speed. Your walking speed is 35 feet.Darkvision. You can see in dim light within 60feet of you as if it were bright light and in darknessas if it were dim light. You discern colors in thatdarkness only as shades of gray.Unending Breath. You can hold your breath indef-initely while you're not incapacitated.Lightning Resistance. You have resistance tolightning damage.Mingle with the Wind. You know the shockinggrasp cantrip. Starting at 3rd level, you can cast thefeather fall spell with this trait, without requiring amaterial component. Starting at 5th level, you canalso cast the levitate spell with this trait, without re-quiring a material component. Once you cast featherfall or levitate with this trait, you can't cast that spellwith it again until you finish a long rest. You canalso cast either of those spells using any spell slotsyou have of the appropriate level.Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma is your spell-casting ability for these spells when you cast themwith this trait (choose when you select this race).EARTH GENASI TRAITSTracing their ancestry to dao, the genies of the El-emental Plane of Earth, earth genasi inherit dao'ssteadfast strength and control over earth.An earth genasi's skin can be the colors of stoneand earth or a human skin tone with glitteringsparkles like gem dust. Some earth genasi havelines marking their skin like cracks, either showingglimmering gemlike veins or a dim, yellowish glow.Earth genasi hair can appear carved of stone orcrystal or resemble strands of spun metal.As an earth genasi, you have the following traits.Creature Type. You are a Humanoid.Size. You are Medium or Small. You choose thesize when you select this race.Speed. Your walking speed is 30 feet.Darkvision. You can see in dim light within 60feet of you as if it were bright light and in darknessas if it were dim light. You discern colors in thatdarkness only as shades of gray.Earth Walk. You can move across difficult terrainwithout expending extra movement if you are usingyour walking speed on the ground or a floor.Merge with Stone. You know the blade wardcantrip. You can cast it as normal, and you can alsocast it as a bonus action a number of times equal toyour proficiency bonus, regaining all expended useswhen you finish a long rest.Starting at 5th level, you can cast the pass withouttrace spell with this trait, without requiring a mate-rial component. Once you cast that spell with thistrait, you can't do so again until you finish a longrest. You can also cast it using any spell slots youhave of 2nd level or higher.Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma is your spell-casting ability for these spells when you cast themwith this trait (choose when you select this race).FIRE GENAS! TRAITSDescended from efreet, the genies of the ElementalPlane of Fire, fire genasi channel the flamboyantand often destructive nature of flame . They showtheir heritage in their skin tones, which can rangefrom deep charcoal to shades of red and orange.Some bear skin tones common to humanity but withfiery marks, such as slowly swirling lights undertheir skin that resemble embers or glowing red linestracing over their bodies like cracks. Fire genasihair can resemble threads of fire or sooty smoke.As a fire genasi, you have the following traits.Creature Type. You are a Humanoid.Size. You are Medium or Small. You choose thesize when you s elect this ra ce.Speed. Your wa lking sp ee d is 30 fee t.Darkvision. You c an see in dim light within 60feet of you as if it were bright light, a nd in darkn e ssas if it were dim light. You discern colors in thatdarkness only as shades of gray.Fire Resistance. You have resistance tofire damage.Reach to the Blaze. You know the produce flamecantrip. Starting at 3rd level, you can cast the burn-ing hands spell with this trait. Starting at 5th level,you can also cast the flame blade spell with thistrait, without requiring a material component. Onceyou cast burning hands or flame blade with thistrait, you can't cast that spell with it again until youfinish a long rest . You can also cast either of thosespells using any spell slots you have of the appro-priate level.Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma is your spell-casting ability for these spells when you cast themwith this trait (choose when you select this race).WATER GENASI TRAITSWater genasi descend from marids, aquatic geniesfrom the Elemental Plane of Water. Water genasiare perfectly suited to life underwater and carry thepower of the waves inside themselves.Their skin is often shades of blue or green, some-times a blend of the two. If they have a human skintone, there is a glistening texture that catches thelight, like water droplets or nearly invisible fishscales. Their hair can resemble seaweed, waving asif in a current, or it can even be like water itself.As a water genasi, you have the following traits .Creature Type. You are a Humanoid.Size. You are Medium or Small. You choose thesize when you select this race.Speed. Your walking speed is 30 feet, andyou have a swimming speed equal to yourwalking speed.Acid Resistance. You have resistance toacid damage.Amphibious. You can breathe air and water.CaJJ to the Wave. You know the acid splash can-trip. Starting at 3rd level, you can cast the create ordestroy water spell with this trait. Starting at 5thlevel, you can also cast the water walk spell withthis trait, without requiring a material component.Once you cast create or destroy water or water walkwith this trait, you can't cast that spell with it againuntil you finish a long rest. You can also cast eitherof those spells using any spell slots you have of theappropriate level.Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma is your spell-casting ability for these spells when you cast themwith this trait (choose when you select this race).Darkvision. You can see in dim light within 60fee t of you as if it were bright light, and in darkn essas if it were dim light. You dis ce rn colors in thatdarkn e ss only as shades of gray.CHAPTER 1 I FANTASTICAL RACES I7GITHYANKIOnce members of a people who escaped servitudeto mind flayers, githyanki split from their cousins,githzerai, and fled to the Astral Plane. In that time-less, silvery realm, githyanki honed their psionicpowers and built a great city called Tu'narath.They have since spread throughout the multiverse,starting in outposts outside the Astral Plane, calledcreches, where time passes and their children canreach adulthood.A lanky people with skin tones of yellows, greens,and browns, githyanki complement their physicalprowess with psionic might, instilled in them bymind flayers and cultivated over eons in the AstralPlane. Now all githyanki can use their psychic bondwith that plane to access splinters of knowledge leftbehind by beings who travel, live, and die among thesilver astral clouds.Githyanki who reside in the Astral Plane can liveindefinitely.GITHYANKI TRAITSAs a githyanki, you have the following racial traits.Creature Type. You are a Humanoid.Size. You are Medium.Speed. Your walking speed is 30 feet.18 CHAPTER 1 I FANTASTICAL RACESAstral Knowledge. You can mystically access areservoir of experiences of entities connected to theAstral Plane. Whenever you finish a long rest, yougain proficiency in one skill of your choice and withone weapon or tool of your choice, selected from thePlayer's Handbook, as you momentarily project yourconsciousness into the Astral Plane. These profi-ciencies last until the end of your next long rest.Githyanki Psionics. You know the mage handcantrip, and the hand is invisible when you cast thecantrip with this trait.Starting at 3rd level, you can cast the jump spellwith this trait. Starting at 5th level, you can alsocast the misty step spell with it. Once you cast jumpor misty step with this trait, you can't cast that spellwith it again until you finish a long rest. You canalso cast either of those spells using any spell slotsyou have of the appropriate level.Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma is your spell-casting ability for these spells when you cast themwith this trait (choose when you select this race).None of these spells require spell components whenyou cast them with this trait.Psychic Resilience. You have resistance topsy-ch ic damage.GITHZERAIGithzerai migrated to the Everchanging Chaosof Limbo after the ancient schism that split theirancestors from their cousins, githyanki. Limbo isa roiling mae lstrom of matter and energy, collaps-ing and reforming without purpose or direction,until a creature exerts deliberate will to stabilizeit. Through their potent psionic power, githzeraicarved a home for themselves amid the chaos. Asthe ages passed, githzerai explorers ranged out toother planes and worlds of the multiverse.Githzerai are generally slender, with speckledskin in shades of yellow, green, or brown. Eons ofcultivating their mental powers within the endlesschaos of Limbo have imbued githzerai with theability to shape psionic energy to protect themselvesand probe minds.GITHZERAI TRAITSAs a githzerai, you have the following racial traits.Creature Type. You are a Humanoid.Size. You are Medium.Speed. Your walking speed is 30 feet.Githzerai Psionics. You know the mage handcantrip, and the hand is invisible when you cast thecantrip with this trait.Starting at 3rd level, you can cast the shield spellwith this trait. Starting at 5th level, you can alsocast the detect thoughts spell with it. Once you castshield or detect thoughts with this trait, you can'tcast that spell with it again until you finish a longrest. You can also cast either of those spells usingany spell slots you have of the appropriate level.Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma is your spell-casting ability for these spells when you cast themwith this trait (choose when you select this race).None of these spells require spell components whenyou cast them with this trait.Mental Discipline. Your innate psychic defensesgrant you advantage on saving throws you make toavoid or end the charmed and frightened conditionson yourself.Psychic Resilience. You have resistance topsy-chic damage.GOBLINA subterranean folk, goblins can be found in everycorner of the multiverse, often beside their bugbearand hobgoblin kin. Long before the god Maglubiyetconquered them, early goblins served in the court ofthe Queen of Air and Darkness, one of the Feywild'sarchfey. Goblins thrived in her dangerous domainthanks to a special boon from her - a supernaturalknack for finding the weak spots in foes larger thanthemselves and for getting out of trouble. Goblinsbrought this fey boon with them to worlds acrossthe Material Plane, even if they don't remember thefey realm they inhabited before Maglubiyet's rise.Now many goblins pursue their own destinies, es-caping the plots of both archfey and gods.GOBLIN TRAITSAs a goblin, you have the following racial traits.Creature Type. You are a Humanoid. You are alsoconsidered a goblinoid for any prerequisite or effectthat requires you to be a goblinoid.Size. You are Small.Speed. Your walking speed is 30 feet.Darkvision. You can see in dim light within 60feet of you as if it were bright light and in darknessas if it were dim light. You discern colors in thatdarkness only as shades of gray.Fey Ancestry. You have advantage on savingthrows you make to avoid or end the charmed condi-tion on yourself.Furyofthe Small. When you damage a creaturewith an attack or a spell and the creature's size islarger than yours, you can cause the attack or spellto deal extra damage to the creature. The ext radamage equals your proficiency bonus.You can use this trait a number of times equal toyour proficiency bonus, regaining all expended useswhen you finish a long rest , and you can use it nomore than once per turn.Nimble Escape. You can take the Disengage orHide action as a bonus action on each of your turns.GOLIATHThe first goliaths lived on the highest mountainpeaks- far above the tree line, where the air is thinand frigid winds howl. Distantly related to giantsand infused with the supernatural essence of theirancestors' mountainous home, goliaths stand be -tween 7 and 8 feet tall and have a wide array of skintones resembling different types of stone.GOLIATH TRAITSAs a goliath, you have the following racial traits.Creature Type. You are a Humanoid.Size. You are Medium.Speed. Your walking speed is 30 feet.Little Giant. You have proficiency in the Athleticsskill, and you count as one size larger when deter-mining your carrying capacity and the weight youcan push , drag, or lift.Mountain Born. You have r es istanc e to cold dam-age. You also naturally acclimate to high altitudes,even if you've never been to one. This includes eleva-tions above 20,000 feet.Stone's Endurance. You can supernaturally drawon unyielding stone to shrug off harm. When youtake damage, you can use your reaction to roll adl2. Add your Constitution modifier to the numberrolled and reduce the damage by that total.You can use this trait a numb er of times equal toyour proficiency bonus , and you regain all expendeduses when you finish a long rest.21HARENGONHarengons originated in the Feywild, where theyspoke Sylvan and embodied the spirit of freedomand travel. In time, these rabbitfolk hopped intoother worlds, bringing the fey realm's exuberancewith them and learning new languages as they went.Harengons are bipedal, with the characteristiclong feet of the rabbits they resemble and fur in avariety of colors. They share the keen senses andpowerful legs of leporine creatures and are fullof energy, like a wound-up spring. Harengons areblessed with a little fey luck, and they often findthemselves a few fortunate feet away from dangersduring adventures.22 CHAPTER l I FANTASTICAL RACESHARENGON TRAITSAs a harengon, you have the following racial traits.Creature Type. You are a Humanoid.Size. You are Medium or Small. You choose thesize when you select this race .Speed. Your walking speed is 30 feet.Hare-Trigger. You can add your proficiency bonusto your initiative rolls.Leporine Senses. You have proficiency in the Per-ception skill.Lucky Footwork. When you fail a Dexterity sav-ing throw, you can use your reaction to roll a d4 andadd it to the save, potentially turning the failure intoa success. You can't use this reaction if you're proneor your speed is 0.Rabbit Hop. As a bonus action, you can jump anumber of feet equal to five times your proficiencybonus, without provoking opportunity attacks. Youcan use this trait only if your speed is greater than0. You can use it a number of times equal to yourproficiency bonus, and you regain all expended useswhen you finish a long rest.HOBGOBLINHobgoblins trace their origins to the ancient courtsof the Feywild, where they first appeared with theirgoblin and bugbear kin. Many of them were drivenfrom the Feywild by the conquering god Maglubiyet,who marshaled them as soldiers, but the fey realmleft its mark; wherever they are in the multiverse,they continue to channel an aspect of the Feywild'srule of reciprocity, which creates a mystical bondbetween the giver and the receiver of a gift.On some worlds, such bonds lead hobgoblins toform communities with deep ties to one another. InEberron and the Forgotten Realms, vast hobgoblinlegions have emerged, with ranks of devoted sol-diers famed for their unity.Hobgoblins are generally taller than their goblincousins but not quite as big as bugbears. They havecurved, pointed ears and noses that turn bright redor blue during displays of emotion.HOBGOBLIN TRAITSAs a hobgoblin, you have the following racial traits.Creature Type. You are a Humanoid. You are alsoconsidered a goblinoid for any prerequisite or effectthat requires you to be a goblinoid.Size. You are Medium.Speed. Your walking speed is 30 feet.Darkvision. You can see in dim light within 60feet of you as if it were bright light and in darknessas if it were dim light. You discern colors in thatdarkness only as shades of gray.Fey Ancestry. You have advantage on savingthrows you make to avoid or end the charmed condi-tion on yourself.Fey Gift. You can use this trait to take the Help ac-tion as a bonus action, and you can do so a numberof times equal to your proficiency bonus. You regainall expended uses when you finish a long rest.Starting at 3rd level, choose one of the optionsbelow each time you take the Help action withthis trait:Hospitality. You and the creature you help eachgain a number of temporary hit points equal told6 plus your proficiency bonus .Passage. You and the creature you help each in-crease your walking speeds by 10 feet until thestart of your next turn.Spite. Until the start of your next turn, the first timethe creature you help hits a target with an attackroll, that target has disadvantage on the next at-tack roll it makes within the next minute.•Fortune from the Many. If you miss with an at-tack roll or fail an ability check or a saving throw,you can draw on your bonds of reciprocity to gain abonus to the roll equal to the number of allies youcan see within 30 feet of you (maximum bonus of+3). You can use this trait a number of times equalto your proficiency bonus, and you regain all ex-pended uses when you finish a long rest.CHAPTER 1 I FANTASTICAL RACES 2324KENKUFeathered folk who resemble ravens, kenku areblessed with keen observation and supernaturallyaccurate memories. None of them can rememberthe origin of the first kenku, however, and they oftenjoke that there are as many kenku origin stories asthere are kenku. Some of them paint their genesisas a curse, being a flightless bird people doomed tomimic other people's creations. Other kenku recitecryptic but beautiful poems about their advent beinga blessed event in which they were sent into the mul-tiverse to observe and cata log its many wonders.Whatever their true origin, kenku are most oftenfound in the Shadowfell and the Material Plane, andthey tend to have the coloration typical of ravens.KENKU TRAITSAs a kenku, you have the following racial traits.Creature Type. You are a Humanoid.Size. Your size is Medium or Small. You choosethe size when you select this race.CHAPTER l [ FANTASTICAL RACESSpeed. Your walking speed is 30 feet.Expert Duplication. When you copy writing orcraftwork produced by yourself or someone else,you have advantage on any abi lity checks you maketo produce an exact duplicate.Kenku Recall. Thanks to your supernaturallygood memory, you have proficiency in two skills ofyour choice.Moreover, when you make an ability check usingany skill in which you have proficiency, you can giveyourself advantage on the check before rolling thed20. You can give yourself advantage in this way anumber of times equa l to your proficiency bonus,and you regain a ll expended uses when you finish along rest.Mimicry. You can accurately mimic sounds youhave heard, including voices. A creature that hearsthe sounds you make can tell they are imitationson ly with a successful Wisdom (Insight) checkagainst a DC of 8 + your proficiency bonus+ yourCharisma modifier.KOBOLDSome of the smallest draconic creatures in themultiverse, kobolds display their draconic ances-try in the glint of their scales and in their roars.Legends tell of the first kobolds emerging from theUnderdark near the lairs of the earliest dragons.In some lands, kobolds serve chromatic or metallicdragons -e ven worshiping them as divine beings.In other places, kobolds know too well how danger-ous those dragons can be and help others defendagainst draconic destruction .Whatever their relationship to dragons, koboldscales tend to be rust colored, although the occa-sional kobold sports a scale color more akin to thatof a chromatic or a metallic dragon. A kobold's crycan express a range of emotion: anger, resolve,elation, fear, and more. Regardless of the emotionexpressed, their cry resonates with draconic power.KOBOLD TRAITSAs a kobold, you have the following racial traits.Creature Type. You are a Humanoid.Size. You are Small.Speed. Your walking speed is 30 feet.Darkvision. You can see in dim light within 60feet of you as if it were bright light, and in darknessas if it were dim light. You discern colors in thatdarkness only as shades of gray.Draconic Cry. As a bonus action, you let out a cryat your enemies within 10 feet of you. Until the startof your next turn, you and your allies have advan-tage on attack rolls against any of those enemieswho could hear you. You can use this trait a numberof times equal to your proficiency bonus, and you re-gain all expended uses when you finish a long rest.Kobold Legacy. Kobolds' connection to dragonscan manifest in unpredictable ways in an individualkobold. Choose one of the following legacy optionsfor your kobold:Craftiness. You have proficiency in one of the fol-lowing skills of your choice: Arcana, Investigation,Medicine, Sleight of Hand , or Survival.Defiance. You have advantage on saving throws toavoid or end the frightened condition on yourself.Draconic Sorcery. You know one cantrip of yourchoice from th e sorcerer spell list. Intelligence,Wisdom , or Charisma is your spellcasting abilityfor that cantrip (choose wh en you select this race).CHAPTER 1 I FANTASTICAL RACES 25LIZARD FOLKThe sa urian lizardfolk are thought by some sages tobe distant co usins of dragon born and kobolds. De-spite their resemblance to thos e other scaled folk,however, lizardfolk are their own people and havelived on the worlds of the Material Plane since theworlds' creation. Gifted by th e gods with re markablephysical defe nses and a mystical connection to thenatural world, lizardfolk can survive with just theirwits in situations that would be deadly for other folk.Because of that fact , many lizardfolk myths statethat their people were placed by the gods in the Ma-terial Plane to guard its natural wonders.Lizardfolk have colorful scales and exhibit a widearray of scale patterns. Th eir individual facial fea-tures are as varied as those of lizards.LIZARDFOLK TRAITSAs a li zar dfolk, you have the following racial traits.Creature Type. You are a Humanoid.Size. You are Medium.Speed. Your walking speed is 30 feet, andyou have a sw imming sp ee d equal to yourwalking spee d.26 CHAPTER 1 I FANTASTICAL RACESBite. You have a fanged maw that you can us e toma ke unarm ed strikes. When you hit with it , thestrike deals ld6 + your Strength modifier slashingdamag e, instead of the bludgeoning damage normalfor an unarmed strike.Hold Breath. You can hold your breath for up to15 minutes at a time.Hungry jaws. You can throw yourself into a feed-ing frenzy. As a bonus action, you ca n make a spe-cial attack with your Bite. If the attack hits , it dealsits normal damage , and you gain temporary hitpoints equal to your proficiency bonus . You can us ethis trait a number of times equal to your proficiencybonus , and you regain all expended uses when youfinish a long rest.Natural Armor. You have tough , scaly skin. Wh enyou aren't wearing armor, your base AC is 13 + yourDext erity modifier. You can us e your natural armorto det er mine your AC if th e armor you wear wouldleave you with a lower AC. A shield's benefits applyas normal while you us e your natural armor.Nature's Intuition. Thanks to yo ur my st ical con-nection to nature , you gain proficiency with two ofthe following skills of your choice: Animal Handling,Medicine, Natur e, Perception, Stealth, or Survival.•MINOTAURMinotaurs are barrel-chested humanoidswith heads resembling those of bulls.Blessed with a supernaturally strong sense_;,,.-.r-of direction, minotaurs make great navigators.Some sages believe minotaurs were first created bythe Lady of Pain to patrol the magical mazes thatshe uses to trap her foes.Minotaur horns range in size from about 1 footlong to easily three times that length. Minotaursoften carve their horns to sharpen their edges,etch symbols of power into them, or sheathethem in bronze to prevent them from shatteringduring battle.Thick hair extends down minotaurs' necks andpowerful backs, and some have long patches of hairon their chins and cheeks. Their legs end in heavy,cloven hooves, and they have long, tufted tails.MINOTAUR TRAITSAs a minotaur, you have the following racial traits.Creature Type. You are a Humanoid.Size. You are Medium.Speed. Your walking speed is 30 feet.Horns. You have horns that you can use to makeunarmed strikes. When you hit with them, thestrike deals ld6 + your Strength modifier piercingdamage, instead of the bludgeoning damage normalfor an unarmed strike.,,,.Goring Rush. Immediately after you take theDash action on your turn and move at least 20 feet,you can make one melee attack with your Horns asa bonus action.Hammering Horns. Immediately after you hit acreature with a melee attack as part of the Attackaction on your turn, you can use a bonus action toattempt to push that target with your horns. Thetarget must be within 5 feet of you and no morethan one size larger than you. Unless it succeedson a Strength saving throw against a DC equal to 8+ your proficiency bonus+ your Strength modifier,you push it up to 10 feet away from you.Labyrinthine Recall. You always know which di-rection is north, and you have advantage on any Wis-dom (Survival) check you make to navigate or track .CHAPTER I I FANTAST I CAL RACES 270RCOres trace their creation to the one-eyed godGruumsh, an unstoppable warrior and powerfulleader. The divine qualities of Gruumsh resonatewithin ores, granting them a reflection of his tough-ness and tenacity that can't be match ed, and thegod equipped his children to be able to live above orbelow ground.On some worlds, such as Eberron, ores wereamong the first defenders of the natural order fromthe encroachments of Fiends and other extrap la-nar threats. Gruumsh's blessings have made orestireless guardians and mighty allies wherever theyare found, even when they turn their devotion toother gods.0RC TRAITSAs an ore, you have the following racial traits.Creature Type. You are a Humanoid .Size. You are Medium.Speed. Your walking speed is 30 feet.Adrenaline Rush. You can take the Dash actionas a bonus action. You can use this trait a numberof times equa l to your proficiency bonus, and you re-gain all expen ded us es when you finish a long rest.Whenever you use this trait, you gain a num-ber of temporary hit points eq ual to your profi-ciency bonus.Darkvision. You can see in dim light within 60feet of you as if it were bright light, and in darknessas if it were dim light. You discern colors in thatdarkness only as shades of gray.Powerful Build. You count as one size largerwhen determining your carryi ng capacity and theweight you can push, drag, or lift.Relentless Endurance. When you are reduced to0 hit points but not killed outright, you can drop to1 hit point instead. Once you us e this trait, you can'tdo so again until you finish a long rest.SATYROriginating in the Feywild -a realm of pure emo-tion -sa tyrs thrive on the energy of merriment. Theyresemble elves but have goatlike legs, cloven hooves,and ram or goat horns. The magic of the fey realmhas given them an innate ability to perform, to de-light, and to resist magical intrusion. While they'reusually found in the Feywild, satyrs do wander toother planes of existence, most often to the MaterialPlane. Th e re they seek to bring a bit of their homeplane's splendor to other worlds.SATYR TRAITSAs a satyr, you have the following racial traits .Creature Type. You are a Fey.Size. You are Medium.Speed. Your walking speed is 35 feet.Ram. You can use your head and horns to makeunarmed strikes. When you hit with them, the strikedeals ld6 + your Strength modifier bludgeoningdamage , instead of the bludgeoning damage normalfor an unarmed strike.Magic Resistance. You have advantage on savingthrows against spells.Mirthful Leaps. Whenever you make a longjump or a high jump , you can roll a d8 and add thenumber rolled to the number of feet you cover, evenwhen making a standing jump. This extra distancecosts movement as normal.Reveler. As an embodiment of revelry, you haveproficiency in the Performance and Persuasionskills, and you have proficiency with one musicalinstrument of your choice.CHAPTER l I FANTASTICAL RACES 29SEA ELFSea e lv es fe ll in love with the wild b ea uty of theocean in the earliest days of the multiverse. Whileothe r e lv es traveled from realm to realm, sea elvesnavigated the c urr ents and explored the watersof many worlds. Today these elves can be foundwherever oceans exist, as well as in the ElementalPlane of Water.Like othe r elves, sea elves can li ve to be over 750years old.SEA ELF TRAITSAs a sea e lf, you have the following racial traits.Creature Type. You are a Humanoid. You are alsoconsidered an elf for any prerequisite or effect thatrequires you to be an e lf.Size. You are Medium.Speed. Your walking speed is 30 feet, a ndyo u have a sw imming speed equal to yourwalking speed .Child of the Sea. You can breathe a ir and water,and you have resistance to co ld damage.30 CHAPTER l I FANTASTICAL RACES,. ....ELVES OF MANY REALMSCreated by the god Corel Ion, the first elves were Fe ybeings who cavorted on various planes of existence,changing their physical forms at will. Outside the gloryof Arvandor, their favorite place was the Feywild-arealm of unbrid led passion . It was to that place ofsplendors that elves fled after they were exi led fromCorel Ion's presence for plotting with their god's rival ,Lolth. And it was there that they transformed fromFey creatures into Humanoids and lost their ability tosha pe -s hift at will. Afterward, they often wept as theyrealized what they had lost, their sorrow made evendeeper by the Fe ywil d's influence. But in the Fe ywil d,they also discovered the potential joys of being peopleof fi xe d forms , and they rediscovered hope once theyrenounced Lolth 's treacher y.Most elves eventua lly spread from the Feywild toother worlds, as wanderlust and curiosity drove themto the far reaches of the multiverse. In those otherworlds, elves developed the physical forms now as-sociated with them . Because of their original mutablenature, each group of elves mystically took on charac-teristics of the environment with which they bonded,whether forests (wood elves), fey crossings in theMaterial Plane (high elves), the Underdar k (drow),the Shadowfell (shadar-kai), the Fe yw ild (eladrin), oroceans (sea elves).In some places , Corellon has passed from elves 'memory, but the god 's blood flows within them still,even if they know nothing of its source. That blood iswhat causes them to evolve after spending centuriesconnected to a particular environment, so it is only amatter of time before other kinds of elves emerge.Darkvision. You ca n see in dim light within 60feet of you as if it were bright light, and in darknessas if it were dim light. You discern colors in thatdarkness only as shades of gr ay.Fey Ancestry. You have advantage on savingthrows you make to avoid or e nd the c harmed condi-tion on yourself.Friend of the Sea. Aquatic animals have anextraordina ry affinity with your people. You cancommunicate simple ideas to any Beast that ha s aswi mming speed. It can understand your words,though you ha ve no specia l ability to unde rstand itin return.Keen Senses. You ha ve proficiency in the Percep-tion skill.Trance. You don 't n eed to s leep, and magic can'tput you to sleep. You ca n finish a long rest in 4hours if you spend tho se hou rs in a trancelike medi-tation, during which you retain conscio usness.Whenever you finish this trance, you can gain twoproficiencies that you don't have, each one with aweapon or a tool of yo ur choice se lected from thePlayer's Handbook. You mystically acq uir e theseproficiencies by drawing them from sh are d elvenmemory, and you retain them until yo u finish yournext long rest....SHADAR-KAIShadar-kai are the elves of theShadowfell, originally drawn to thatdread realm by the Raven Queen.Over the centuries, some of them havecontinued to serve her, while others haveventured into the Material Plane to forgetheir own destinies .Once shadar-kai were Fey like the rest of theirelven kin; now they exist in a state between life anddeath, thanks to being transformed by the Shadow-fell's grim energy.Shadar-kai have ashen skin tones, and whilethey're in the Shadowfell, they a lso becomewizened, reflecting the somber nature of thatgloomy plane.Like other e lv es, shadar-kai can live to be over750 years old.SHADAR-KAI TRAITSAs a shadar-kai, you have the following racial traits.Creature Type. You are a Humanoid . You are alsocons id ered an elf for any prerequisite or effect thatrequires you to be an elf.Size. You are Medium.Speed. Your walking speed is 30 feet.Blessing of the Raven Queen. As a bonus action,you can magically teleport up to 30 feet to an un-occupied space you can see. You can use this traita number of times equal to your proficiency bonus,and you regain all expended us es when you finish along rest.Starting at 3rd level, you also gain resistanceto a ll damage when you teleport using this trait.The resistance lasts until the start of your nextturn. During that time, you appear ghostly andtranslucent.Darkvision. You can see in dim light within 60feet of yo u as if it were bright light, and in darknessas if it were dim light. You discern colors in thatdarkness only as shades of gray.Fey Ancestry. You have advantage on savingthrows you make to avoid or end the charmed cond i-tion on yourself.Keen Senses. You have proficiency in the Percep-tion skill.Necrotic Resistance. You have resistance to ne-crotic damage .Trance. You don't need to sleep, and magic can'tput you to sleep. You can finish a long rest in 4hours if you spend those hours in a trancelike medi-tation, during which you retain consciousness .Whenever you finish this trance, you can gain twoproficiencies that you don't have, each one with aweapon or a tool of your choice selected from thePlayer's Handbook. You mystically acquire theseproficiencies by drawing them from shared elvenmemory, and you retain them until you finish yournext long rest.CHAPTER 1 I FANTASTICAL RACES 31SHIFTERShifters are sometimes ca ll ed weretouched, as theyare descendants of people who contracted full orpartial ly canthropy. Humanoids with a bestial as-pect, shifters can't fully cha nge shape, but they cantemporarily enhance their animalistic features byentering a state they call shifting.Shifters are similar to humans in height and buildbut are typically more lithe and flexible. Their facialfeatures have a bestial cast, often with large eyesand pointed ears; most shifters also have prominentcanine teeth. They grow fur-like hair on nearly everypart of their bodies. While a shifter's appearancemight remind an onlooker of an animal, they remainclearly identifiable as shifters even when at theirmost feral.Most shifters resemble a particular kind of ly-canthrope. You can choose the kind of lycanthropein your past, or you can determine it randomly byrolling on the Lycanthrope Ancestor table. The tablealso provides a suggestion for the Shifting optionyou might have as a result of your ancestry.32 CHAPTER 1 I FANTASTICAL RACESLYCANTHROPE ANCESTORd6 Ancestor Suggested Shifting OptionWerebear Bea sth ide2 Wereboar Be ast hide3 Wererat Swiftstride4 Weretiger Swiftstride5 Werewolf (wolflike) Longtooth6 Werewo lf (doglike) Wi ldhuntSHIFTER TRAITSAs a shifter, you have the following racial traits.Creature Type. You are a Humanoid.Size. You are Medium.Speed. Your walking speed is 30 feet.Bestial Instincts. Channeling the beast within,you have proficiency in one of the following skillsof your choice: Acrobatics, Athletics, Intimidation,or Survival.Darkvision. You can see in dim light within 60feet of you as if it were bright light, and in darknessas if it were dim light. You discern colors in thatdarkness only as shades of gray.Shifting. As a bonus action, you can assume amore bestial appearance. This transformation lastsfor 1 minute, until you die, or until you revert to yournormal appearance as a bonus action. When youshift, you gain temporary hit points equal to 2 x yourproficiency bonus. You can shift a number of timesequa l to your proficiency bonus, and you regain allexpended uses when you finish a long rest.Whenever you shift, you gain an additional benefitbased on one of the following options (choose whenyou select this race):Beasthide. You gain ld6 additional temporary hitpoints. While shifted, you have a +1 bonus to yourArmor Class.Longtooth. When you shift and as a bonus actionon your other turns while shifted, you can useyour elongated fangs to make an unarmed strike.If you hit with your fangs, you can deal piercingdamage equal to ld6 + your Strength modifier,instead of the bludgeoning damage normal for anunarmed strike.Swiftstride . While shifted, your walking speed in-creases by 10 feet. Additionally, you can move upto 10 feet as a reaction when a creature ends itsturn within 5 feet of you. This reactive movementdoesn't provoke opportunity attacks.Wildhunt. While shifted, you have advantage onWisdom checks, and no creature within 30 feetof you can make an attack roll with advantageagainst you unless you're incapacitated."f•...•TABAXICreated by the Cat Lord - a divine being of the Up-per Planes-to blend the qualities of humanoidsand cats, tabaxi are a varied people in both attitudeand appearance. In some l ands, tabaxi live like thecats they resemble, naturally c urious and at home inplayful environments. In other places, tabaxi live asother folk do, not exhibiting the feline behavior theCat Lord intended.Tabaxi's appearance is as varied as their attitudes.Some tabaxi have featur es or patterning in their furlike tigers, jaguars, or other big cats, while othershave appearances more like a house cat. Still othershave unique patterns or might style their fur to theirpreferences - or might even be hairless!TABAXI TRAITSAs a tabaxi, you have the following racial traits.Creature Type. You are a Humanoid.Size. You are Medium or Small. You choose thesize when you select this race.Speed. Your walking speed is 30 feet, and youhave a climbing speed equal to your walking speed.Cat's Claws. You can use your claws to make un-armed strikes. When you hit with them , the strikedeals ld6 + your Strength modifier slashing dam-age, inst ead of the bludgeoning damage normal foran unarmed strike.Cat's Talent. You have proficiency in the Percep-tion and Stealth skills.Darkvision. You can see in dim light within 60feet of you as if it were bright light, and in darknessas if it were dim light. You discern colors in thatdarkness only as shades of gray.Feline Agility. Your reflexes and agility allow youto move with a burst of speed. When you move onyour turn in combat, you can double your speeduntil the end of the turn. Once you use this trait,you can't use it again until you move O feet on one ofyour turns.CHAPTER 1 I FANTASTICAL RACES 33TORTLETortles have a saying: "We wear our homes on ourbacks." These turtle folk live on many worlds, mostoften journeying up and down coasts, along water-ways, and across the sea. Tortles don't have a uni-fied story of how they were created, but they all havea sense of being mystically connected to the naturalworld. Carrying their shelter on their backs givestortles a special feeling of.security wherever theygo, for even if they visit a far, unknown co untry , theyhave a place to lay their heads.Tortles exhibit the same range of coloration andpatterns found among turtles, and many tortles en-joy adorning their shells in distinctive ways.TORTLE TRAITSAs a tortle, you have the following racial traits.Creature Type. You are a Humanoid.Size. You are Medium or Small. You choose thesize when you select this race.Speed. Your walking speed is 30 feet.Claws. You have claws that you can use to makeunarmed strikes. When you hit with them, the strikedeals ld6 + your Strength modifier slashing dam-age, instead of the bludgeoning damage normal foran unarmed strike.34 CHAPTER 1 I FANTASTICAL RACESHold Breath. You can hold your breath for upto 1 hour.Natural Armor. Your shell provides you a baseAC of 17 (your Dext erity modifier doesn't affect thisnumber). You can't wear light, medium, or heavy ar-mor , but if you are using a shield, you can apply theshield's bonus as normal.Nature's Intuition. Thanks to your mystical co n-nection to nature, you gain proficiency with one ofthe following skills of your choice: Animal Handling,Medicine, Nature, Perception, Stealth, or Survival.SheJJ Defense. You can withdraw into your shellas an action. Until you emerge, you gain a +4 bonusto your AC, and you have advantage on Strengthand Constitution saving throws. While in your she ll,you are prone, your speed is O and can't increase,you have disadvantage on Dexterity saving throws,you can't take reactions, and the only action you cantake is a bonus action to emerge from your shell.TRITONOriginally from the Elemental Plane of Water, manytritons entered the Material Plane centuries ago inresponse to the growing threat of evil elementals.Those trito ns spread across the worlds' oceans,protecting the surface from terrors in the deep. Overtime, triton have extended their stewardship overthe sea floor to the ocean's surface.Tritons have webbed hands and feet, small finson their ca lv es, and coloration that favors bluesand greens.TRITON TRAITSAs a triton, you have the following racial traits.Creature Type. You are a Humanoid.Size. You are Medium.Speed. Your walking speed is 30 feet, andyou have a swimming speed equal to yourwalking speed.Amphibious. You can breathe air and water.Control Air and Water. You can cast fog cloudwith this trait. Starting at 3rd level, you can castthe gust of wind spell with this trait. Starting at 5thlev el, you can also cast the water walk spell with it.Once you cast any of these spells with this trait, youcan't cast that spell with it again until you finish along rest. You can also cast these spells using anyspell slots you have of the appropriate level.Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma is your spell-casting ability for these spells when you cast themwith this trait (choose when you se lect this race).Darkvision. You can see in dim light within 60feet of you as if it were bright light and in darknessas if it were dim light. You discern colors in thatdarkness only as shades of gray.Emissary of the Sea. You can communicate sim-ple ideas to any Beast, Elemental, or Monstrositythat has a swimming speed. It can understand yourwords, though you have no special ability to under-stand it in return.Guardian of the Depths. Adapted to the frigidocean depths, you have resistance to cold damage.CHAPTER 1 I FANTASTICAL RACES 35YUAN-TIYuan-ti were originally humans who transformedthemselves into serpent folk through ancient rituals.Most yuan-ti were corrupted into monsters by thoserites , but some yuan-ti instead became a new peoplewho mix characteristics of humans and snakes.Blessed with resistance to magical and poison-ous effects by the rituals that created them, each ofthese yuan-ti manifests their serpentine heritagein a variety of ways: a forked tongue, snake eyes, asnakelike nose, or some other ophidian characteris-tic. However a yuan-ti looks, they have the power topursue great good or ev il in the multiverse.YUAN - TI TRAITSAs a yuan-ti, you have the following racial traits.Creature Type. You are a Humanoid.Size. You are Medium or Small. You choose thesize when you select this race.Speed. Your walking speed is 30 feet.36 CHAPTER l I FANTASTICAL RACESDarkvision. You can see in dim light within 60feet of you as if it were bright light, and in darknessas if it were dim light. You discern colors in thatdarkness only as shades of gray.Magic Resistance. You have advantage on savingthrows against spells.Poison Resilience. You have advantage on sav-ing throws you make to avoid or end the poisonedcondition on yourself. You also have resistance topoison damage.Serpentine Spellcasting. You know the poisonspray cantrip. You can cast animal friendship an un-limited number of times with this trait , but you cantarget only snakes with it. Starting at 3rd level, youcan also cast suggestion with this trait. Once youcast it, you can't do so again until you finish a longrest. You can also cast it using any spell slots youhave of 2nd level or higher.Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma is your spell-casting ability for these spells when you cast themwith this trait (choose when you select this race).CHAPTER 2ESTIARYGf HIS BESTIARY PROVIDES GAME STATISTICSand lore for more than 250 monsters, whichare suitable for any D&D campaign. Thechapter includes old favorites from past edi-tions of the game as well as creatures created forthe current edition.This chapter is a companion to the Monster Man-ual and adopts a simi lar presentation. If you are un-familiar with the monster stat block format, read theintroduction of the Monster Manual before proceed -ing further. It explains stat block terminology andgives rules for various monster traits - informationthat isn't repeated here.The creatures in this bestiary are organized alpha-betically. A few are gathered under a group heading;for example, the "Dinosaurs" section contains statblocks for various dinosaurs .Herein you will find some weapons that deal un-usual damage types and spellcasting that functionsin atypical ways. Such an exception is a specialfeature of a monster and represents how it usesthe weapon or casts its spells; the exception hasno affect on how a weapon or a spell functions forsomeone else.Finally, if a stat block contains the name of a classin the monster's name or in parentheses under thename, the monster is considered a member of thatclass for the purpose of meeting prerequisites formagic items.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 37ABISHAISEach abishai was once a mortal whosomehow won Tiamat's favor beforedeath and, as a reward, fo und its sou ltransformed into a draconic devil to serveat her pleasure in the Nine Hells. Eachtype of abishai is associated with one ofTiamat's five dragon heads: black, blue,green , red , and white.Tiamat deploys abishais as her agents,sending them forth to represent herinterests in the Hells and across the mul -tiverse. Some have simple tasks, such asdelivering a message to cultists . Othershave greater responsibilities, such asleading large groups , assassinating tar-gets, and serving in armies. In all cases,abishais are fanatically loyal to Tiamat ,ready to lay down their lives if needed.Abishais stand outside the normal hierarchy ofthe Nine Hells, having their own chain of commandand ultimately answering to Tiamat (and Asmodeus ,when he chooses to use them). Other archdevils cancommand abishais to work for them, but most arch -devils do so rarely, since it is never clear whetheran abishai follows Tiamat's orders or Asmodeus's.There is inherent risk in counte r manding an ordergiven by Tiamat , but interfering with Asmodeus'splans invites certain destruction.BLACK ABISHAIMedium Fiend (Devi l), Typically Lawful EvilArmor Class 15 (natural armor)Hit Points 58 (9d8 + 18)Speed 30 ft ., fl y 40 ft.STR14 (+ 2)DEX17 (+ 3)CON14 (+2)Saving Throws Dex +6, Wis +6Skills Perception +6, Stealth +6INT13 (+l)WIS16 (+ 3)CHA11 (+ 0)Damage Resistances co ld; bludgeoning, piercing, and slashingfrom nonmagical attac ks that aren 't sil veredDamage Immunities acid , fire, poisonCondition Immunities poisonedSenses darkvision 120 ft. , passive Perception 16Languages Draconic, Infernal, telepathy 120 ft.Challenge 7 (2 ,900 XP) Proficiency Bonus +3Dev il' s Sight. Magical dar kn ess do es n't impede th e a bi shai'sdarkvis ion.38 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYBLACK ABISHAIExpert assassins and infiltrators, black abishais canweave shadows to mask their presence , allowingthem to reach a location where they can deliver afatal strike to their targets.Mag ic Res istance. The a bi shai has ad va ntage o n sav in g throwsag ai nst s p el ls an d other magica l e ffects.ACTIONSMultiattack. Th e ab is h ai makes one Bi te attack and two Sc im -it ar attacks.Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft. , one target.Hit: 8 ( ldl0 + 3) pierci ng damage plu s 9 (2 d 8) acid da mage.Scimitar. Melee We apon Attack: +6 to h it , reach 5 ft. , one tar-get. Hi t: 6 ( ld 6 + 3) force damage .Creeping Da rkness (R echarge 6) . Th e ab is hai casts darkness ata po in t wit hi n 120 feet of it , requir in g no spel l components orco nce nt ra ti o n. Wis do m is it s spe ll cas tin g ability fo r thi s spel l.Wh ile the spe ll persists, the a bi shai ca n move the area of dark-ness up to 60 feet as a bonus act ion .BONUS ACTIONSShado w Stealth. W hil e in dim light or darkness , the abishaitakes t he Hid e act ion.BLUE ABISHAISeekers of forgotten lore and lost relics, blueabishais are the most cunning and learned of theirkind. Their research into occult subjects gleanedfrom tomes plundered from across the multiverseenables them to become accomplished spellcasters.They use their magic to devastate Tiamat's enemies.GREEN ABISHAIGreen abishais are adept at discovering secrets andother sensitive information, while their diplomaticskills and their magic ensure they can manipulateeven the shrewdest opponents.RED ABISHAIRed abishais have no equals among the abishaiswhen it comes to leadership ability and raw power.Red abishais lead other devils into battle or takecharge of troublesome cults to ensure that theycontinue to carry out Tiamat's commands . A redabishai cuts a fearsome figure, and that sight can beinspiring to the abishai's allies, filling them with afanatical willingness to fight.WHITE ABISHAIWhite abishais fight with a reckless fury, makingthem ideally suited for bolstering the ranks of Tia-mat's armies . White abishais fight without fear, be-coming whirlwinds of destruction on the battlefield.BLUE ABISHAIMedium Fiend (Devil, Wizard), Typically Lawful EvilArmor Class 19 (natural armor)Hit Points 202 (27d8 + 81)Speed 30 ft ., fly SO ft .STR15 (+2)DEX14 (+2)CON17 (+3)SavingThrows lnt+l2, Wis+l2Skills Arcana +12INT22 (+6)WIS23 (+6)CHA18 (+4)Damage Resistances cold ; bludgeoning, piercing, and slashingfrom nonmagical attacks that aren't silveredDamage Immunities fire, lightning, poisonCondition Immunities poisonedSenses darkvi sion 120 ft. , passive Perception 16Languages Draconic, Infernal , telepathy 120 ft.Challenge 17 (18,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +6Devil's Sight. Mag ica l darkness doesn't impede the abishai'sdarkvision.Magic Resistance. The abishai has advantage on saving throwsagainst spe lls and other magical effects.ACTIONSMultiattack. The abishai makes three Bite or LightningStrike attacks.Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach S ft,, one tar-get. Hit: 13 (2dl0 + 2) piercing damage plus 14 (4d6) light-ning damage.Lightning Strike. Ranged Spell Attack: +12 to hit, range 120 ft. ,one target. Hit: 36 (8d8) lightning damage.Spe/lcasting. The abishai casts one of the following spells , us-ing Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 20):At wi ll: disguise self. mage hand, minor illusion2/day each: charm person, dispel magic, greater invisibility,wall offorceBONUS ACTIONSTelep ort. The abishai te leports, along with any equipment it iswear ing or carrying, up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space thatit can see.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 39GREEN ABISHAIMedium Fiend (Devil), Typically Lawful EvilArmor Class 18 (natural armor)Hit Points 195 (26d8 + 78)Speed 30 ft ., fly 40 ft .STR12 (+l)DEX17 (+ 3)CON16 (+3)Saving Throws Int +8, Cha +9INT17 (+3)WIS12 (+l)CHA19 (+ 4)Skills Deception +9, Ins ight +6 , Perception +6 , Pers uasion +9Damage Resistances cold; bludgeoning , piercing, and slashingfrom nonmagical attacks that aren't s ilve redDamage Immunities fire, poisonCondition Immunities po isonedSenses darkvision 120 ft ., passive Perception 16Languages Draconic, Infernal , telepath y 120 ft .Challenge 15 (13,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +5Devil's Sight. Magical darkness doesn't impede the abishai 'sdarkvision.REDABISHAIMedium Fiend (Devil) , Typically Lawful EvilArmor Class 22 (natural armor)Hit Points 289 (34d8 + 136)Speed 30 ft ., fl y 50 ft .STR23 (+6)DEX16 (+ 3)CON19 (+4) .INT14 (+2)Saving Throws Str + l2 , Con +10 , Wis +8Skills Intimidation +10 , Percept ion +8WIS15 (+2)CHA19 (+4)Damage Resistances cold ; bludgeoning, piercing, and slash ingfrom nonmag ical at tacks that aren't silveredDamage Immunities fire , poisonCondition Immunities frightened , poisonedSenses dar kvis ion 120 ft ., passive Perception 18Languages Draconic, Infernal , telepathy 120 ft .Challenge 19 (22 , 000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +6Devil's Sight. Magical darkness doesn't impede the abishai'sdarkvision.Magic Resistance. The abishai has advantage on saving throwsagainst s pell s and other magi c al effects.ACTIONSMultiattack. The abishai make s on e Bite attack and one Cl awattack , and it can use Frightful Presence or In cite Fanaticis m .40 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY• •Magic Resistance. The abishai has advantage on saving throwsagainst spells and other magical effects.ACTIONSMultiattack. The abishai makes two Fiendish Claw attacks , or itmakes one Fiendish Claw attack and uses Spellcasting.Fiendish Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., onetarget. Hit: 12 (2d8 + 3) force damage. lfthe target is a crea-ture , it must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw ortake 16 (3dl0) poison damage and become poisoned for l min-ute . The poisoned target can repeat the saving throw at the endof each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success .Spel/casting. The abishai casts one of the following spells ,requiring no material components and using Charisma as thespellcasting ability (spell save DC 17):At will : alter self, major image3/day each : charm person, detect thoughts,fear1/day each: confusion, dominate person, mass suggestionBite. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft ., one target .Hit: 22 (3dl0 + 6) piercing damage plus 38 (7dl0) fire damage.Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.Hit: 17 (2dl0 + 6) force damage plus 11 (2dl0) fire damage.Frightful Presence. Each creature of the abishai 's choice thatis within 120 feet and aware of the abishai must succeed on aDC 18 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of it for lminute . A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end ofeach of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If acreature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it,the creature is immune to the abishai's Frightful Presence forthe next 24 hours.Incite Fanaticism. The abishai chooses up to four other crea-tures within 60 feet of it that can see it. Until the start of theabishai's next turn, each of those creatures makes attack rollswith advantage and can't be frightened .Power of the Dragon Queen. The abishai targets one Dragon itcan see within 120 feet ofit. The Dragon must make a DC 18Charisma saving throw. A chromatic dragon makes this savewith disadvantage . On a successful save, the target is immuneto the abishai's Power of the Dragon Queen for l hour. Ona failed save, the target is charmed by the abishai for l hour .While charmed in thi s way, the target regard s the abishai as atrusted friend to be heeded and prote c ted . Thi s effect ends ifthe abishai or its co mp anion s deal damage to the ta rget.WHITE ABI S H A IG RE E N ABISHAIWHITE ABISHAIMedium Fiend (Devil), Typically Lawful EvilArmor Class 15 (natural armor)Hit Points 68 (8d8 + 32)Speed 30 ft., fl y 40 ft .STR16 (+3)DEX11 (+ 0)CON18 (+4)Saving Throws Str +6, Con +7INT11 (+0)WIS12 (+l)CHA13 (+l)Damage Resistances bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing fromnonmagical attacks that aren 't silveredDamage Immunities cold, fire , poisonCondition Immunities poisonedSenses darkvision 120 ft ., passive Perception 11Languages Draconic, Infernal , telepath y 120 ft .Challenge 6 (2 ,300 XP) Proficiency Bonus +3Devil's Sight. Magical darkness doesn't impede the abishai'sdarkvision.Magic Resistance. The abishai has advantage on saving throwsagainst spells and other magical effects .RED AB I SHA IReckless. At the start of its turn, the abishai can gain advantageon all melee weapon attack rolls during that turn, but attackrolls against it have advantage until the start of its next turn.ACTIONSMultiattack. The abishai makes one Bite attack , one Claw at-tack, and one Longsword attack.Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.Hit: 5 (ld4 + 3) piercing damage plus 3 (ld6) cold damage.Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft. , one target.Hit: 8 (ldl0 + 3) slashing damage.Longsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., onetarget. Hit: 7 (ld8 + 3) force damage, or 8 (ldl0 + 3) forcedamage if used with two hands.REACTIONSVicious Reprisal. In response to taking damage, the abishaimakes one Bite attack against a random creature within 5 feetof it. If no creature is within reach , the abishai moves up tohalf its speed toward an enemy it can see, without provokingopportunity attacks .CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 41ALHOONMind flayers that pursue arcane magic ar e exiled asdeviants, and for them no everlasting communionwith an e ld er brain (appe ars in this book) is possi-ble. Th e road to lichdom offers an alternative wayto e scap e the perman ency of de ath , but that path islong an d fraught with barri e rs . Alhoons are mindfl aye rs who have us ed a shortcut to a ttain a lich-like sta te.Elder brains forbid mind flaye rs from pursuingmagic power aside from psionics, but it isn't an in-terdiction th ey must often enforce. Illithids brook nomast e rs but members of th eir own kind , so it isn 'tin their nature to bow to any god or oth erworldlypatron . However, wizardr y re mains a temptation. Inth e pages of a spellbook , an illithid s ee s a system toacquire authority. Through th e writing s of the wiz-ard who pe nned it, the illithid perceives the work-ings of a highly intelligent mind. Most mind flayerswho find a spellbook react with a bhorrence or indif-ference, but for some, a sp ellbook is a gateway to anew way of thinking.For a time , the study of su ch forbidden te xts canbe hidden from other illithids and even from anelder brain. Yet eventually, mind flayer arcanistsdete rmined to pursue wizardry must flee the colonyfor their own safety. Once th ey ta ste fr ee dom fromthe colony, some prize th eir privacy, others seek toc ommune with similar minds , and still others se ekto dominate a colony by elevating themselves to th eposition of leadership normally held by an elderbrain. Regardless, all such ar c anists face the samestark fact: when they die, th ey will not join the hostof minds in the elder brain - deviant minds are neverac cepted as part of th e collective. For them, deathme ans oblivion.Lic hdom offers sal vation and th e prospect of beingable to pursue knowledge indefinitely. Yet learningth e s e cr et of achieving lichdom re quir es an arcanespellc aster to be at the apex of pow er- a significantchallenge for mind flayers , given the scarcity ofavailable me ntors and training.Confronting this reality, a group of nine mindflayer ar c anists used their ar c an e magic and psion-ics to weave a new truth . Th e se nin e called them-se lv es the Alhoon, and thos e who follow in th eirfoo t steps are referred to by the same name.4 2 C H A PT E R 2 I BESTIARYCOLLABORATIVE UNDEATHTo become alhoons, mind flayer ar c anists must co-operat e in the creation of a periapt of mind trapping ,a fist-sized container made of silve r, emerald, andam ethyst. The process re quir es at least three mindflayer ar c anists and th e sa crifice of an equal numberof souls from living victims in a three-day-long ritualof sp ellc asting and psionic communion. Upon itscompletion, free-willed undeath is conferred on themind flayers , turning th em into alhoons.Initially, an alhoon can be difficult to distinguishfrom a normal mind flayer. Th e most obvious dif-fere nce is the lack of a mind flayer's ever-presentmucus coating. Without that prot ection, an alhoon 'sskin be c omes dry and cra cked, and its eyes mightappear shriveled and sunken. Both of these cluesare easily missed by someone who hasn 't seen amind flayer. However, in short ord er, an alhoon 'sfl e sh with e rs away and its empty eye sockets gleamwith cold pinpricks of light like thos e of other liches.Unlike a true lich's phylactery, th e periapt of mindtrapping doesn't restor e the alhoons to undeath ifth ey are destroyed. Inst ead, a destroy ed alhoon'smind is transferred to th e periapt, where it remainsin communion with any other trapp ed alhoonminds , as well as the soul s of those sacrificed.Th e undeath conferr ed by a p eriapt of mind trap-ping lasts only so long as the life of the living victimselecte d. Thus an alhoon who sa crificed a 200-year-old elf looks forward to a much longer existencethan one that sacrificed a 35-year-old person. Al-hoons can extend their existence by repeating theritual with new victims, effective ly re setting thecloc ks for themselves.Destroying a periapt of mind trapping consignsthos e trapped within it to oblivion, and thus alhoon soften work together to cr e at e elaborate protectionsfor their periapt and th eir pr efe rr ed ritual site.Sometimes a single alhoon is entrust ed with thep eriapt of mind trapping, but this is a dangerousproposition. Anyone who holds th e periapt gainsadvantage on attacks, saving throws, and checksagainst the alhoons associat ed with its creation,and thos e alhoons in turn suffer disadvantage on at-tacks , saving throws , and che cks against the holde r.In addition, the holder can telepathically commu-nicate with any sacrificed soul trapped within, andalhoons within the periapt c an speak telepathicallywith the holder. A creatur e carr ying the periaptcan 't prevent communication from alhoons but cansilence trapped souls.ALHOONMedium Undead (Mind Flayer, Wizard), Typically Neutral EvilArmor Class 15 (natural armor)Hit Points 150 (20d8 + 60)Speed 30 ft., fly 15 ft. (hover)STR11 (+ 0)DEX12 (+l)CON16 (+3)INT19 (+4)WIS17 (+3)Saving Throws Con +7 , Int +8, Wis +7, Cha +7Skills Arcana +8, Deception + 7, History +8, Insig ht +7 ,Perception +7, Stealth +5Damage Resistances cold , lightning, necroticDamage Immunities poisonCHA17 (+3)Condition Immunities charmed , exhaustion, frightened ,pa ralyzed , poisonedSenses truesight 120 ft. , passive Perception 17Languages Deep Speech , Undercommon, telepathy 120 ft .Challenge 10 (5 ,900 XP) Proficiency Bonus +4Magic Resistance. The al ho on has advantage on saving throwsagainst spells and other magical effects.Turn Resistance. The alhoon has advantage on saving throwsagainst an y effect that turns Undead.ACTIONSMultiattack. Th e alhoon makes two Chill in g Grasp or ArcaneBolt attacks.Chilling Grasp. Melee Spell Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., onetarget. Hit: 14 (4d6) cold damage, and the alhoon regains 14hit points.Arcane Bolt. Ranged Spell Attack: +8 to hit, range 120 ft., onetarget. Hit: 28 (8d6) force damage.Mind Blast (Recharge 5-6). The alhoon magically emits psy-chic energy in a 60-foot cone. Each creature in that area mustsucceed on a DC 16 Intelligence saving throw or take 22 (4d8 +4) psychic damage and be stunned for l minute. A target canrepeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, endingthe effect on itself on a success.Spellcasting. The alhoon casts one of the following spel ls, re-quiring no material components and using Intelli gence as thespe llc asting ability (spell save DC 16):At will: dancing lights, detect magic, detect thoughts, disguise self,mage hand, prestidigitation1/ da y each : dominate monster, globe of invulnerability, invisibility,modify memory, plane shift (self onl y), wall offorceREACTIONSNegate Spell (3/Day). The a lh oon targets one creature it cansee within 60 feet of it that is casting a spell. If the spell is 3rdlevel or lower, the spel l fails, but any spel l slots or charges arenot wasted .CHAPTER '2 I BESTIARY 43An alkilith is easily mistaken for some kind of foulfungal growth that appears on doorways, windows,and other portals. These dripping infestationsconceal the demonic nature of the alkilith, makingwhat should be a dire warning appear strange butotherwise innocuous. Wherever alkiliths take root,they weaken the fabric of reality, creating a portalthrough which even nastier demons can invade.The appearance of an alkilith in the world heraldsa great wrongness and an imminent catastrophe.An alk ilith searches for an aperture such as a win-dow or a door around which it can take root, stretch-ing its body around the opening and anchoring itselfwith a sticky secretion. If left undisturbed, the open-ing becomes attuned to the Abyss and eventua ll ybecomes a portal to that plane (see "Planar Portals"in the Dungeon Master's Guide).Alkiliths spring from cast-off bits of the hideous,shuddering body ofJuiblex (appears in this book).They gradually become self-aware and seek to findtheir way onto the Material Plane. Since most cult-ists consider them too risky to summon - they can,after all, create portals to the Abyss- alkiliths mustfind other escape routes out of their native plane.44 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYMedium Fiend (Demon), Typically Chaotic EvilArmor Class 17 (natural armor)Hit Points 168 (l6d8 + 96)Speed 40 ft. , climb 40 ft.STR12 (+ l)DEX19 (+4)CON22 (+6 )Saving Throws Dex+8, Con +10Skills Stealth +8INT6 (-2)WISll (+0)CHA7 (- 2)Damage Resistances acid, cold , fire, lightning; blud geon ing,piercing, and sl ash ing from nonmagica l atta ck sDamage Immunities poisonConditi on Immun iti es ch armed , fr ighten ed, poisonedSenses darkvision 120 ft ., passive Perception 10Languag es understan ds Ab yssa l but can' t speakChallenge ll (7 ,200 XP ) Profi ci en cy Bonus +4Abyssal Rift. If the alkilith su rround s a do or, wi nd ow, or similaropening continuously for 6d6 days, the opening becomes a per-manent portal to a random layer of the Abyss.Amorphous. The alkilith can move throu gh a space as narrow asl inch wide without squeezing.False Appearance. If the alkili th is motionless at the start ofcombat, it has advantage on its initiative roll. Moreover, if acreature hasn't observed the a lkilith move or act, that creaturemust succeed on a DC 18 Intelligence (Investigation) check todiscern that th e a lkilith isn't ordinary s lim e or fungus.Foment Confusion. Any creature that isn't a dem on that startsit s turn within 30 feet of the alkilith must succeed on a DC 18Wis dom saving throw, or it hears a faint buzzing in its head fora moment and has disadvantage on its next attack roll, savingthro w, or ability check.If the saving throw against Foment Confusion fails by 5 ormore, th e creature is in stead subjected to the confusion spellfo r l minute (no concentration required by the alkil ith) . Whi leunder the effect of that confusion, the creature is immune toFo ment Confusion.Magic Resistance. The alkilith has advantage on saving throwsagainst spe lls a nd other magical effect s.Spider Climb. The alkilith can climb difficult surface s, such asupsid e do wn on cei lings, without making an ability check .Unusual Nature . The alkilith does n 't require air, food,drink, or sleep.A C TION SMultiattack. The alkilith makes three Tentacle attacks.Tentacle. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit , reach 15 ft., one tar-get. Hit: 18 (4d6 + 4) ac id damage .ALLIPWhen a creature uncovers a secret that a powerfulbeing has protected with a mighty curse, the resultis often the creation of an a ll ip. Secrets protectedin this manner range in scope from a demon lord'strue name to the hidden truths of the cosmic order.The creature acq uir es the secret, but the curse an -nihilates its body and leaves behind a spectra l beingcomposed of fragments from the victim's psycheand overwhel ming psychic agon y.Every allip is wracked with a horrifying insightthat torments what remains of its mind. In the pres-ence of other creat ures, an allip seeks to relieve thisburden by sharing its secret. The creature can im -part only a shard of the knowledge that doomed it,but that piece is eno ugh to wrack the recipient withtemporary mental a nguish and viol ent compulsions.The survivors of an a ll ip's attack are sometimesleft with a compulsion to learn more about whatspawned this monstrosity. Strange phrases echothrough their minds, and weird visions occupy theirdreams. The sense that some colossa l truth sits ju stoutside their recall plagues them for days, months,and sometimes years after their fateful encounter.INSIDIOUS LOREAn allip might attempt to share its lore to escape itscurse and enter the afterlife. It can transfer knowl-edge from its mind by guiding another creatu re towr ite down what it knows. This process takes daysor possibly weeks. An allip can accomplish this taskby lurking in the study or workplace of a scho lar. Ifthe allip remains hidden, its victim is gradually over-come by frantic energy. A scholar, driven by suddeninsigh ts to work night and day, produces reams oftext with little memory of exactly what the docu-ments contain. If the allip su cceeds, it passes fro mthe worl d-and its terrib le secret hides somewherein the scho l ar's text, waiting to be discovered by itsnext victim.ALLIPMedium Undead , Typ ically Neutral Ev ilArmor Class 13Hit Points 40 (9d8)Speed Oft., fly 40 ft . (hover)STR6 (- 2)DEX17 (+3)CON10 (+0 )Saving Throws Int +6 , Wis +5Skills Perception +5, Stealth +6INT17 (+3)WIS15 (+2)CHA16 (+3)Damage Resistances acid , fire , lightning, thunder; bludgeon ing ,piercing, and slashing from nonmagical attacksDamage Immunities cold, necrotic, poisonCondition Immunities charmed, exhaustion , frightened,grappled, paralyzed , petrified, poisoned, prone, restrainedSenses darkvision 60 ft ., passive Perception 15Languages the languages it knew in lifeChallenge 5 (1 ,800 XP) Proficiency Bonus +3Incorporeal Movement . Th e allip can move t h ro ugh oth ercreat ur es a nd objects as if t hey we re di ffi cu lt terrain . It takes 5(l d lO ) fo rce damage if it ends it s turn inside an object.Unusual Natur e. The al lip doesn't requi re air, food ,d rink, or sleep.ACTIONSMaddening Touch . Me lee Spell Attack: +6 to hit, reac h 5 ft., onetarget. Hit : 17 (4d6 + 3) psych ic damage.Howling Babble (Recharge 6). Each creatu re with in 30 feet ofth e allip t hat can hear it mu st make a DC 14 Wis dom savingthr ow . On a fa iled save, a target takes 12 (2d 8 + 3) psyc hicdamage, an d it is st unned un til the end of it s nex t tu rn. Ona successful save, it takes half as mu ch damage and isn'tst unned. Constructs a nd Undead are imm un e to th is effect .Whispers of Compulsion. The a ll ip chooses up to three crea-tures it ca n see within 60 feet of it. Eac h target must succeedon a DC 14 Wisdom sav in g th row, or it takes 12 (2d8 + 3)ps ych ic damage and must use its react ion to make a me leeweapon attack aga ins t one creatu re of the allip 's choice that thea lli p can see. Co nst ructs and Undead are immune to th is effect.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 45Medium Fi end ( Devil) , Typ ica lly Lawful Ev ilArmor Class 21 (natural armor)Hit Points 202 (27d8 + 81)Speed 30 ft., fl y 40 ft .STRll (+ O)DEXl3 (+l)CON16 (+3)INT20 (+ 5)WIS12 (+l)Saving Throws De x +7 , Con +9, Wis +7, Cha +l 0Skills Perception +7CHA18 (+ 4)Damage Resistances cold ; bludgeonin g, pi ercin g, and slash ingfrom nonmagica l attacks th at aren 't sil veredDamage Immunities fir e, po iso nCondition Immunities charmed , po isonedSenses dark vi sion 120 ft ., pa ssive Percept ion 17Languages Comm on, Infern al, telep athy 1,000 ft .Challenge 18 (20,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +6Devil's Sight. Magical darkness doesn't impede the amnizu'sdarkvision.Magic Resistance. The amnizu has advantage on saving throwsagainst spells and other magical effects.ACTIONSMultiattack. The amnizu uses Blinding Rot or Forgetfulness, ifavailable. It also makes two Taskmaster Whip attac ks.Taskmaster Whip. Melee Weapon Attack: +ll to hit, reach 10ft., one target. Hit: 9 (ld8 + 5) slashing damage plus 16 (3dl0)force damage.46 CHAPTER '2 I BESTIARYAMNIZUAmnizus lead infernal legions into battle andcommand guardians at the gateways to the Hells.Amnizus are arrogant, bullying, and ruthless, butthey're also highly intelligent tacticians and unfail-ingly loyal- qualities the hellish archdukes value.Some amnizus perform the critical task of watch-ing over the River Styx from fortresses along theriver's blighted banks, where it flows through Disand Stygia. They collect the souls arriving in theform of lemures (see the Monster Manual). Lemureshave no personalities or memories; they're drivenonly by the desire to commit evil. The amnizus thatpatrol here drill the rules of the Nine Hells into thenew arrivals' minds and marshal them into legions.VARIANT : D EVI L SUMMONINGSome amnizus have an action that allows them tosummon other devils:Summon Devil (1/Day). The amnizu summons 2d4 beardeddevils or ld4 barbed devils (both appear in the Monster Man-ual). A summoned devil appears in an unoccupied space within60 feet of the amnizu, acts as an ally of the amnizu, and can 'tsummon other devils. It remains for l minute , until the amnizudies, or until its summoner dismisses it as an action.Blinding Rot. The amnizu targets one or two creatures that itcan see within 60 feet of it. Each target must succeed on a DC19 Wisdom saving throw or take 26 (4dl2) necrotic damage andbe blinded until the start of the amnizu 's next turn.Forgetfulness (Recharge 6). The amnizu targets one creatureit can see within 60 feet of it. That creature must succeed ona DC 18 Intelligence saving throw or take 26 (4dl2) psychicdamage and become stunned for l minute . A stunned creaturerepeats the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, endingthe effect on itself on a success. If the target is stunned for thefull minute , it forgets everything it sensed , experienced, andlearned during the last 5 hours.Spellcasting. The amnizu casts one of the following spells , re-quiring no material components and using Intelligence as thespellcasting ability (spell save DC 19):At will: command3/day: dominate monsterl /day: feeblemindREACTIONSInstinctive Charm. When a creature within 60 feet of the am-nizu makes an attack roll against it , and another creature iswithin the attack's range , the attacker must make a DC 19Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the attacker musttarget the creature that is closest to it, not including the am-nizu or itself. If multiple creatures are closest, the attackerchooses which one to target. If the saving throw is successful,the attacker is immune to the amnizu 's Instinctive Charmfor 24 hours.ANNIS HAGAnnis hags lair in mountains or hills. These hunch-backed and hump-shouldered hags are the largestand most physically imposing of their kind, standingeight feet tall. They can easily tear a fully grownperson apart, but they love hunting the young, pre-ferring their flesh above all others.Annis hags leave tokens of their cruelty at theedges of forests and other areas they claim to pro-voke fear and distrust in nearby villages and set-tlements. To an annis hag, nothing is sweeter thanmaking a once-vibrant community paralyzed withterror, so folk never venture out at night, strangersare met with suspicion and anger, and parents warntheir children: "Be good, or the annis will get you."When an annis feels especially cruel, the hagadopts the appearance of a kindly elder, approachesa child in a remote place, and gives them an iron to-ken (described below), through which the child canmagically confide in the hag. Over time, "Granny"or "Grampy" convinces the child that it's okay to dobad deeds-starting with breaking things or wan-dering without permission, then graduating to push-ing someone down the stairs or setting a house onfire. Eventually, the child's terrified family and com-munity face painful decisions of what to do aboutthe seemingly remorseless child.Much as annis hags befriend children in orderto corrupt them, they may adopt a group of ogres,trolls, or other creatures (ogres and trolls appearin the Monster Manual), ruling them through brutestrength, insults, and superstition .IRON TOKENAn annis hag can pull out one of their iron teeth ornails and spend 1 minute shaping and polishingit into the form of a coin, a ring, or a tiny mirror.Thereafter, any creature that holds this iron tokencan have a whispered conversation with the hag,provided the creature and the hag are within 10miles of each other. When the hag speaks throughthe token, the holder can hear the hag's whisper butnot any other sounds at the hag's location. Similarly,the hag can hear the holder of the token but not thenoise around it.A hag can have up to three iron tokens active atone time. As an action, the hag can discern thedirection and approximate distance to those activetokens. The hag can deactivate any of those tokensat any distance (no action required), whereupon thetoken retains its current form but loses its magic.HAG COVENSAn annis hag that is part of a coven (see the "HagCovens" sidebar in the Monster Manual) has a chal-lenge rating of 8 (3,900 XP).Large Fey, Typically Chaotic EvilArmor Class 17 (natural armor)Hit Points 90 (l2dl0 + 24)Speed 40 ft.STR21 (+5)DEX12 (+l)Saving Throws Con +5CON14 (+2)INT73 (+ l)Skills Deception +5, Perception +5Damage Resistances coldWIS14 (+2)Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 15Languages Common, Giant, SylvanCHA15 (+2)Challenge 6 (2,300 XP) Proficiency Bonus +3ACTIONSMultiattack. The annis makes one Bite attack and twoClaw attacks.Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.Hit: 15 (3d6 + 5) piercing damage.Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft. , one target.Hit: 15 (3d6 + 5) slashing damage.Crushing Hug . Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., onetarget. Hit: 36 (9d6 + 5) bludgeoning damage, and the target isgrappled (escape DC 15) if it is a Large or smaller creature . Un-til the grapp le ends, the target takes 36 (9d6 + 5) bludgeoningdamage at the start of each of the hag 's turns . The hag can'tmake attacks while grappling a creature in this way.Spellcasting. The hag casts one of the following spells, usingCharisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 73):3/day each: disguise self (including the form of a Medium Hu -manoid)Jog cloudICHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 47ARCHDRUIDArchdruids watch over the natural wonders oftheir domains. They seldom interact with folk awayfrom their druid groves and shrines, unless thereis a great threat to the natural order or to a nearbycommunity. An archdruid typically has one or morepupils who are druids (see the Monster Manual),and the archdruid's lair is usually guarded by loyalBeasts and Fey creatures.When an archdruid uses their Change Shapeaction , you may choose the creature they turn into,abiding by the action's restrictions. Or you may rollon the Archdruid Favored Shapes table to deter-mine the form the archdruid adopts. These crea-tures appear in the Monster Manual, unless other-wise noted.ARCHDRUID FAVORED SHAPESd8 Favored ShapeAir elemental2 Earth elemental3 Fire elemental4 Giant crocodile5 Mammoth6 Flail snail (appears in this book)7 Triceratops8 Water elemental48 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYMedium Human oid (Druid) , Any AlignmentArmor Class 14 (hide armor)Hit Points 154 (28d8 + 28)Speed 30 ft .STR14 (+2)DEX14 (+2)CON12 (+l)Saving Throws Int +5, Wis +9INT12 (+l)•WIS20 (+ 5)Skills Medicine +9, Nature +5, Perception +9Senses passive Perception 19Languages Druid ic plus any two languagesCHA11 (+O)Challenge 12 (8,400 XP) Proficiency Bonus +4ACTIONSMultiattack. The archdruid makes three Staff or Wildfire at-tacks. It can replace one attack with a use of Spellcasting.Staff. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit , reach 5 ft ., one target.Hit: 5 (ld6 + 2) bludgeoning damage plus 21 (6d6) poi-son damage .Wild.fire. Ranged Spell Attack: +9 to hit, range 120 ft ., one tar-get. Hit: 26 (6d6 + 5) fire damage , and the target is blindeduntil the start of the druid's next turn.Spellcasting. The archdruid casts one of the following spells,using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 17) :At will: beast sense, entangle, speak with animals3/day each: animal messenger, dominate beast.faerie fire,tree stride1/day each: commune with nature (as an action), masscure woundsBONUS ACTIONSChange Shape (2/Day). The archdruid magically transformsinto a Bea st or an Elemental with a challenge rating of 6 or lessand can remain in that form for up to 9 hour s. The archdruidcan choose whether its equipment falls to the ground , meldswith its new form , or is worn by the new form. The archdruidre verts to it s true form if it dies or falls unconscious. The arch-druid can revert to its true form using a bonus action.While in a new form, the archdruid's stat block is replacedby th e stat blo ck of that form, except the archdruid keeps itscurrent hit points, it s hit point maximum, this bonus action, itslanguages and abi lit y to speak, and its Spellcasting action.The new form's attacks count as magical for the purpose ofovercoming resistances and immunity to nonmagical attacks .ARCHERArchers defend castles, hunt wild game on thefringes of civilization, serve as artillery in militaryunits, and occasionally make good coin as brigandsor caravan guards.Some renowned archers and groups of archersare known for the special fletching of their arrows.You may roll on the Archer Fletching table to deter-mine the distinctive fletching used by an individualarcher or a group of them.ARCHER FLETCHINGdl2 FletchingFeathers from an owlbear's mane2 Coc ka trice feathers3 Axe beak feathers4 Planetar feathers5 Couatl feathers6 Pegasus feathers7 Griffon feathers8 Vrock feathers9 Peryton feathers10 Dr yad leaf va nes11 Drake scale vanes12 Stirge wing vanesARCHERMedium Human oid, An y Al ig nmentArmor Class 16 (studded leather)Hit Points 75 (10d8 + 30)Speed 30 ft.STR11 (+O)DEX18 (+4)CON16 (+3)INT11 (+O)Skills Acrobatics +6, Perception +5Senses passive Perception 15WIS13 (+l)Languages any one language (usually Common)CHA10 (+0)Challenge 3 (700 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2ACTIONSMultiattack. The archer makes two Shortsword or Long-bow attacks .Shortsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft ., onetarget. Hit: 7 (ld6 + 4) piercing damage.Longbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, range 150/600 ft.,one target. Hit: 8 (ld8 + 4) piercing damage.BONUS ACTIONSArcher's Eye (3/Day) . Immediately after making an attack roll ora damage roll w ith a ranged weapon, the archer can roll a dlOand add the number rolled to the total.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 49ARMANITEGreat he rds of armanit es ra ce across th e blastedfields of the Abyss , bent on slaught er and death ,driven by unr e strain ed bloodlust. Wh e th er they'recontrolled by mor e powerful demons or c harginginto battle for the sak e of it, armanit es us e theirclaws and hooves , as we ll as their long, whipliketa ils, to te ar apa rt fo es.In th e armi es of de mon lords, armanit es performth e role of heavy ca valr y, le ading th e charg e andte aring into their en e mies' fl anks. Armanit es fightall th e time -eve n battling each other if th ey can 'tfind anoth er ene my. Th ey make ideal shock troops,utterly ruthl e ss and bold to the point of stupidity.Part of wh at mak es a rmanit es so fe arsom e isth e number of weapons th ey have at th eir dispos a l.Th ey poss e ss de ns e hooves , claws that end in curl-ing ta lons, and long tails who se se rr ated ridges ca nfl en se the fl e sh from a vi c tim , a nd th ey u se them allto c ar ve throu gh th eir fo es . Wh en th ey're up aga instto ugh form ations , th ey ca n ca ll on their innatemagic to lo ose bolts of lightning a nd blow holes inenemy ra nk s.50 CHAPTER 2 / BESTIARY1'Larg e Fi end (D emon) , Typi cally Cha otic EvilArmor Class 16 (natural armor)Hit Points 94 (9dl0 + 45)Speed 60 ft.STR21 (+5)DEX18 (+4)CON21 (+5)INT8 (-1)Damage Resistances cold , fire , lightningDamage Immunities poisonCondition Immunities poisonedWIS12 (+l)Senses darkvision 120 ft ., passive Perception 11Languages Abyssal , telepathy 120 ft .CHA13 (+l)Challenge 7 (2,900 XP) Proficiency Bonus +3Magi c Resista nce . Th e arma ni te has advantage on savingthro ws again st spe lls a nd other magical effects .ACTIONSMultiat ta ck. The arman ite makes one Cla w attack , one Ho ov esatt ack , and one Serrated Tail attack.Cl aw. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one tar-get. Hit: 10 (2d4 + 5) slashing damage plus 9 (2d8) light-ning damage .Hoov es. Mele e Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, re a ch 5 ft. , one target.Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) bludgeoning damage . If the target is a Largeor sma ller creature, it must succeed on a DC 16 Strength savingthrow or be knocked prone.Serrated Ta il. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 10 ft. , onetarget. Hit: 16 (2dl0 + 5) slashing dam age.Li ghtning La nce (Recharge 5- 6). The arm anite looses a bo lt oflightning in a line that is 60 feet long and 10 feet wide. Ea chcreature in the line mu st make a DC 15 Dex terity sav in g thr ow ,taking 36 (8d8) lightn ing damage on a failed s ave, or half asmuch damage on a successfu l one.ASTRAL DREADNOUGHTEnormous and terrifying, astral dreadnoughts hauntthe silvery void of the Astral Plane, causing planartravelers to shudder at the very thought of them.Dreadnoughts have been gliding through the astralmists since the dawn of the multiverse, trying to de-vour all other creatures they encounter.Covered from head to tail in layers of thick, spikedplates, a dreadnought has two gnarled limbs thatend in magic-enhanced pincer claws. Constellationsappear to swirl in the depths of its single eye, andits serpentine tail trails off into the silvery void.Anything it swallows is deposited in a unique demi-plane- an enclosed space that contains eons worthof detritus, as well as the remains of travelers. Theplace has gravity and breathable air, and organicmatter decays there. When the dreadnought dies, itsdemiplane vanishes , and its contents are releasedinto the Astral Plane.ASTRAL DREADNOUGHTGargantuan Monstrosity ( Ti tan) , UnalignedArmor Class 20 (natural armor)Hit Points 297 (l 7d20 + 119)Speed 15 ft., fly 80 ft. (hover)STR28 (+9)DEX7 (- 2)CON25 (+7)Saving Throws Dex +S , Wis +9Skills Perception +9INT5 (-3)WIS14 (+2)CHA18 (+4)Damage Resistances bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing fromnonmagical attacksCondition Immunities charmed , exhaustion , frightened ,paralyzed , petrified , poisoned , prone, stunnedSenses darkvision 120 ft. , passive Perception 19Languages -Challenge 21 (33,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +7Antimagic Cone . The dreadnought's eye creates an area of anti-magic, as in the antimagic field spell, in a 150 -foot cone. At thestart of each of its turns, it decides which way the cone faces.The cone doesn't function whi le the eye is closed or whi le thedreadnought is blinded.Astral Entity. The dreadnought can 't leave the Astral Plane, norcan it be banished or otherwise transported out of that plane.Demiplanar Donjon. Anything the dreadnought swa ll ows istransported to a demi plane that can be e ntered by no othermeans except a wish spe ll or the dreadnought's Bite and Don-jon Visit. A creature can leave the demi plane only by usingmagic that enables planar trave l, such as the plane shift spell.The demip lane resembles a stone cave roughly 1,000 feet indiameter with a ceiling 100 feet high. Like a stomach , it con-tains the remains of past meals. The dreadnought can 't beharmed from within the demi plane. If the dreadnought dies,the demiplane disappears , and everything inside it appearsaround the dreadnought's corpse. The demiplane is otherwiseindestructible.Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the dreadnought fai ls a sav in gthrow, it can choose to succeed instead.Sever Silver Cord. If the dreadnought scores a critical hitagainst a creature traveling by means of the astral projectionspell, the dreadnought can cut the target's silver cord insteadof dealing damage.Unusual Nature. The dreadnought doesn't require air, food ,drink, or s le ep.ACTIONSMultiattack. The dreadnought makes one Bite attack and twoClaw attacks .Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +16 to hit, reach 10 ft. , one target.Hit: 36 (5dl O + 9) force damage . If the target is a Huge orsma ller creature and this damage reduces it to O hit points or itis incapacitated, the dreadnought swal lows it. The swallowedtarget, along w ith everyt hin g it is wear in g and carrying, appearsin an unoccupied space on the floor of the Demiplanar Donjon.Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +16 to hit, reach 20 ft ., one target.Hit: 19 (3d6 + 9) force damage.LEGENDARY ACTIONSTh e dreadnought can take 3 legendary actions, choosing fromthe opt ions below. Only one legendary option can be used at atime and only at the end of another creature's turn . The dread-nought regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn.Claw. The dreadnought makes one Claw attack.Donjon Visit (Costs 2 Actions). One Huge or sma ll er creaturethat the dreadnought can see w ith in 60 feet of it must suc-ceed on a DC 19 Charisma saving throw or be teleported toan unoccupied space on the floor of the Demiplanar Don-jon. At the end of the target's next turn, it reappears in thespace it left or in the nearest unoccupied space if that spaceis occupied.Psychic Projection (Costs 3 Actions). Each creature within 60feet of the dreadnought must make a DC 19 Wisdom savingthrow, taking 26 (4dl0 + 4) psychic damage on a failed save,or half as much damage on a successful one.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 5152BABAUDemons and devils clash endlessly for control ofthe Lower Planes. One of these battles pitted the le-gions of the archdevil Glasya against the screaminghordes of the demon lord Graz'zt (appears in thisbook). It is said that when Glasya wounded Graz'ztwith her sword, the first babaus arose where hisblood struck the ground. Their sudden appearancehelped rout Glasya and secured Graz'zt's place asone of the preeminent demon lords of the Abyss.A babau demon has the cunning of a devil and thebloodthirstiness of a demon. It has leathery skinpulled tight over its gaunt frame and a curved hornprotruding from the back of its elongated skull. Ababau's baleful glare can weaken a creature, and itstalons gleam with acidic slime.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYBABAUMedium Fiend (Demon), Typically Chaotic EvilArmor Class 16 (natura l armor)Hit Points 82 (ll d8 + 33)Speed 40 ft .STR19 (+ 4)DEX16 (+3)CON16 (+3)Skills Perception +5, Stealth +5INT11 (+O)WIS12 (+l)CHA13 (+l)Damage Resistances cold , fire, lightning; bludgeoning, piercing,and slashing from nonmagical attacksDamage Immunities po isonCondition Immunities poisonedSenses darkvision 120 ft., passi ve Perception 15Languages AbyssalChallenge 4 (l ,l 00 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2ACTIONSMultiattack. The babau makes two Claw attacks. It can replaceone attack with a use of Spellcasting or Weakening Gaze.Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.Hit: 6 (ld4 + 4) slashing damage plus 2 (ld4) acid damage.Spellcasting. The babau casts one of the following spells,requiring no material components and using Wisdom as thespellcasting ability (spell save DC 11):At will: darkness, dispel magic.fear, heat metal, levitateWeakening Gaze. The babau targets one creature that it cansee within 20 feet of it. The target must make a DC 13 Consti-tution saving throw. On a failed save, the target deals only ha lfdamage with wea po n attacks that use Strength for l minute.The target can rep eat the saving throw at the end of each of it sturns, ending the effect on it se lf on a success.BAELWith the Blood War between devils and demonsraging for eons and no end in sight, opportunitiesabound for ambitious archdevils to win fame, glory,and power in the ongoing struggle. Duke Bael, oneof Mammon's most important vassals, has wonfame and acclaim for his victories. Charged withleading sixty-six companies of barbed devils (see theMonster Manual), Bae) has proven to be a tacticalgenius, earning esteem for himself and his masteras a result of victory after victory over the abyssalhost. Mammon relies on Bael to safeguard his hold-ings because of Bael's battle acumen. During a timewhen so many other archdevils have lost their posi-tions, Mammon has never been ousted, which is atestament to Bael's skill on the battlefield.For his accomplishments, Bael has been grantedthe title of Bronze General. His accolades notwith-standing, he has had a difficult time navigating thequagmire of infernal politics. His critics call himnaive, though never to his face. His primary interesthas always been leading soldiers in battle, so hefinds it frustrating to have his ambitions of ascend-ing to a higher rank constantly stymied by politicallyshrewd rivals .Bae! prefers to make servants out of his adver-saries, and mortals bound to his service earn theirwretched place by falling victim to his superior strat-agems. Bae) gladly spares the lives of those he de-feats-if they pledge their souls and service to him.Demons are an exception; although he is willing tocorrupt almost any other foes, he always destroysdemons he defeats.Bael also welcomes mortals into his service if theycan provide him with an advantage in his politick-ing. He recruits savvy individuals and relies on themto represent his interests at Mammon's court, whichleaves him free to pursue his battle lust.Despite his lack of interest in affairs outsidebattle, or perhaps because of it, Bae) has gained asmall following of cultists. Those who worship athis altar call him the King of Hell, and the mostdeluded believe that he is the lord of all devils. Inarcane circles, certain writings, such as the dreadedBook of Fire, say that Bae) revealed the invisibilityspell to the world, though some scholars of magichotly refute such claims. Bae) is sometimes depictedas a toad, a cat, a human, or some combination ofthese forms.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 53e ... = -Piif#SPf aps -- ---===___ ,BAELLarge Fiend (Devil), Lawful EvilArmor Class 18 (plate)Hit Points 189 (18dl0 + 90)Speed 30 ft.STR24 (+7)DEX17 (+3)CON20 (+5)INT21 (+5)WIS24 (+7)Saving Throws Dex +9, Con +11, Int +11, Cha +13CHA24 (+7)Skills Intimidation +13 , Perception +13 , Persuasion +13Damage Resistances cold; bludgeoning, piercing, and slashingfrom nonmagical attacks that aren't silveredDamage Immunities fire, poisonCondition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, frightened,poisonedSenses truesight 120 ft., passive Perception 23Languages all, telepathy 120 ft.Challenge 19 (22 ,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +6Dread. Any creature, other than a devil , that starts its turnwithin 10 feet of Bael must succeed on a DC 22 Wisdom savingthrow or be frightened of him until the start of its next turn. Acreature succeeds on this saving throw automatically if Bae!wishes it or ifhe is incapacitated.Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Bae! fails a saving throw, hecan choose to succeed instead.Magic Resistance. Bae! have advantage on saving throwsagainst spells and other magical effects.Regeneration. Bae! regains 20 hit points at the start of his turn.If he takes cold or radiant damage, this trait doesn't function atthe start of his next turn. Bae I dies only if he starts his turn with0 hit points and doesn't regenerate.ACTIONSMultiattack. Bael makes two Hellish Morningstar attacks.Hellish Morningstar. Melee Weapon Attack:+13 to hit, reach20 ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d8 + 7) force damage plus 9 (2d8)necrotic damage.Infernal Command. Each of Bael's allies within 60 feet of himcan't be charmed or frightened until the end of his next turn.Spellcasting. Bael casts one ofthe following spells, requiring nomaterial components and using Charisma as the spellcastingability (spell save DC 21):At will : alter self (can become Medium) , charm person, detectmagic, invisibility, major image3/day each: dispel magic,fly, suggestion, wall offire1/day: dominate monsterTeleport. Bael teleports, along with any equipment he is wearingor carrying, up to 120 feet to an unoccupied space he can see.LEGENDARY ACTIONSBael can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the optionsbelow. Only one legendary action option can be used at a timeand only at the end of another creature's turn. Bael regainsspent legendary action s at the start of his turn .Fiendish Magic . Bael uses Spellcasting or Teleport.Infernal Command. Bael uses Infernal Command.Attack (Costs 2 Actions). Bael makes one Helli sh Mornin g-star attack.- ,;::::::,.., I _.-;;;;ae- it - ::::::::; ..,,.,,_ #?$¥?! :;::: ' §j54 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYBALHANNOTHNative to the Shadowfell, the vicious, predatorybalhannoth alters reality in its lair to make theplace appear inviting to travelers. A limited form oftelepathy enables a balhannoth to identify imagesof places where its prey expects their needs and de-sires to be met, such as an inn or a temple offeringhealing. It then warps reality around itself, hiding it-self and remaking its environment to resemble sucha place. The imitation is imperfect, but it's goodenough to fool greedy or desperate creatures. Onceits prey enters the trap, it snatches the targets andteleports away to feed on their fear and despair.Dungeon builders and Underdark tyrants some -times venture into the Shadowfell to capture bal-hannoths for use as guardians .A BALHANNOTH'S LAIRIn the Shadowfell, balhannoths make their lairsnear places inhabited by creatures they hunt. Theytypically haunt well-traveled roads and paths,snatching people who come along. A balhannothused as a guardian in the Underdark might lair incaves near Underdark passages and guard the waysin and out of its keepers ' enclave.LAIR ACTIONSOn initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), a bal-hannoth can take one of the following lair actions;the balhannoth can't take the same lair action tworounds in a row:Teleport. The balhannoth targets one creaturewithin 500 feet of it. The target must succeed on aDC 16 Wisdom saving throw, or the target, alongwith whatever it is wearing and carrying , teleportsto an unoccupied space of the balhannoth's choicewithin 60 feet of it.Vanish. The balhannoth targets one creature within500 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 16Wisdom saving throw, or the balhannoth becomesinvisible to that creature for 1 minute. This effectends if the balhannoth attacks the target.Warp Terrain. The balhannoth warps realityaround it in an area up to 500 feet square . After10 minutes, the terrain in the area reshapes toassum e th e app e aranc e of a location sought byon e Hum a noid whos e de sir es th e ba lhannoth h asse ns ed (s ee Regional Effec ts below). Th e transfor-mation affects nonliving mat erial only a nd ca n'tcr ea te anything with moving pa rts or m agica lprop e rties . Any object cre at ed in this ar ea is, uponclose inspection , revealed as a fake. Books arefilled with empty pages , golden items are obviouscounterfeits, and so on. The tr ansformation lastsuntil the balhannoth dies or takes this lair ac-tion again.REGIONAL EFFECTSA region containing a balhannoth's lair becomeswarped by the creature 's unnatural presence, whichcreates one or more of the following effects:Sense Desires. The balhannoth can sense thestrongest desires of any Humanoid within 1 mileof it and learns wh e ther those desires involve aplace: a safe location to rest, such as a temple, ahome, or somewhere else.Supernatural Lure. Creatures within 1 mile of thebalhannoth's lair experience the sensation of be -ing close to wh atever th ey desire most. Th e se ns a-tion grows strong er th e closer the cr ea tur es c om eto the ba lhannoth 's lair.If the ba lha nnoth dies, these e ff ects endimmediate ly.BALHANNOTHLarge Aberration, Typically Chaotic EvilArmor Class 17 (natural armor)Hit Points 114 (l2dl0 + 48)Speed 25 ft., climb 25 ft .STR17 (+3)DEX8 (-1)Saving Throws Con +8CON18 (+4)Skills Perception +6Condition Immunities blindedINT6 (- 2)WIS15 (+ 2)Senses blindsight 500 ft. (blin d beyond this radius) ,passive Perception 16CHA8 (-1)Languages understands Deep Speech, telepathy l mileChallenge 11 (7,200 XP) Proficiency Bonus +4Legendary Resistance (2/Day). If the balhannoth fails a savingthrow, it can choose to succeed instead.ACTIONSMultiattack. The balhannoth makes one Bite attack and twoTentacle attacks.Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit:19 (3dl0 + 3) piercing damage.Tentacle. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit , reach 10 ft ., one tar-get. Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) bludgeoning damage, and the target isgrappled (escape DC l 5) and is moved up to 5 feet toward thebalhannoth. Until this grapple ends , the target is restrained,and the balhannoth can't use this tentacle against other tar-gets. The balhannoth has four tentacles.LEGENDARY ACTIONSThe balhannoth can take 3 legendary actions, choosing fromthe options below. Only one legendary action can be used at atime and only at the end of another creature 's turn. The balhan-noth regains spent le gendary actions at the start of its turn.Bite. The balhannoth makes one Bite attack against one crea-ture it has grapp led .Teleport. The balhannoth te leports , alon g with a ny equipmentit is wearing or carrying a nd an y creatures it has grappled, upto 60 feet to an unoccupied s pace it can se e.Vanish. The ba lh annoth magically becom es in visible for up to10 minutes or until immediately after it makes an attack roll.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 55BANDERHOBBA band erhobb is a hybrid of shadow and flesh.Through vile magic, these components take on anenormous and horrific upright shape resembling abipedal toad. In this form, a banderhobb temporarilyserves its creator as a thug, a thief, and a kidnapperthat swallows the unwary.Hags have devised a ritual for crea ting bander-hobbs-a hag who knows the ritual might be willingto teach it for the right price. Some other wickedFey and powerful Fiends also know of the process,as do a few mortal mages.During its brief existence, a banderhobb attemptsto carry out its creator's bidding. It accomplishesits mission with no concern for the harm it suffersor causes . Its only desire is to serve and succeed. Abanderhobb that is assigned to track down a targetis particularly dangerous when it is provided with alock of hair , a personal belonging, or another objectconnected to the target. Possession of such an itemallows it to sense the creature's location from as faras a mile away.A banderhobb fulfills its duties until its existenceends. When it expires, usually several days afterits birth, it leaves behind only tarry goo and wispsof shadow. Legends tell of an ominous tower in theShadowfell where the shadows sometimes reformand banderhobbs roam.BANDERHOBBLarg e Monstrosity, Typically Neutral EvilArmor Class 15 (natural armor)Hit Points 84 (8dl0 + 40)Speed 30 ft.STR20 (+5)DEX12 (+l)CON20 (+5)Skills Athletics +8 , Stealth +7INT11 (+ O)Condition Immunities charmed, frightenedWIS14 (+2)CHA8 (-1)Senses darkvision 120 ft ., pa ssive Perception 12Languages understands Common and the languages of itscreator but can 't speakChallenge 5 (1,800 XP) Proficiency Bonus +3Resonant Connection. If the banderhobb has even a tiny pieceof a creature or an object in its possession, such as a lock ofhair or a sp linter of wood, it knows the most direct route to thatcreature or object if it is within 1 mile of the banderhobb.ACTIONSMultiattack. The banderhobb makes one Bite attack andone Tongue attack. It can replace one attack with a use ofShadow Step.Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft ., one target.Hit: 15 (3d6 + 5) piercing damage, and the target is grappled56 CHAPTER 2 J BESTIARY(escape DC 16) if it is a Large or smaller creature. Until thisgrapple ends , the target is restrained , and the banderhobbcan't use its Bite attack or Tongue attack on another target.Tongue. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit , reach 15 ft., one crea-ture . Hit: 10 (3d6) necrotic damage, and the target must makea DC 16 Strength sav in g throw. On a fai led save, the target ispulled to a space within 5 feet of the banderhobb.Shadow Step. The banderhobb teleports up to 30 feet to an un-occupied space of dim light or darkness that it can see.Swallow. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one Me-dium or smaller creature grappled by the banderhobb. Hit: 15(3d6 + 5) piercing damage. The creature is also swallowed ,and the grapple ends. Th e swallowed creature is blinded andrestrained, it has total cover against attacks and other effectsoutside the banderhobb, and it takes 10 (3d6) necrotic dam-age at the start of each of the banderhobb's turns. A creaturereduced to O hit points in this way stops taking the necroticdamage and becomes stable.The banderhobb can have on ly one creature swa ll owed at atime. While the banderhobb isn't incapacitated , it can regur-gitate the creature at any time (no action required) in a spacewithin 5 feet of it. The creature exits prone. If the banderhobbdies , it likewise regurgitates a swallowed creature .BONUS ACTIONSShadow Stealth. While in dim li ght or darkness , the bander-hobb takes the Hide action.BAPHOMETCivilization is weakness and brutality is strengthin the credo of Baphomet, the Horned King and thePrince of Beasts. He is worshiped by those whowant to break the confines of civility and unleashtheir bestial natures, for Baphomet envisions aworld without restraint, where creatures live outtheir most bloodthirsty desires.Cults devoted to Baphomet use mazes and com-plex knots as their emblems. They create secretplaces to indulge themselves, including labyrinthsof the sort their master favors. Bloodstained crownsand weapons of iron and brass decorate their pro-fane altars.Over time, a cultist of Baphomet becomes taintedby his influence, gaining bloodshot eyes and coarse,thickening hair. Small horns eventually sprout fromthe cultist's forehead. In time, a devoted cultistmight transform entirely into a minotaur, which isconsidered the greatest gift of the Prince of Beasts.Baphomet appears as a fearsome, 20-foot-tall mi-notaur with six iron horns. A fiendish light burns inhis red eyes. Although he is filled with bestial bloodlust, there lies within him a cruel and cunning intel-lect devoted to subverting all civilization.Baphomet wields a great glaive called Heart-cleaver. He also charges his enemies and goresthem with his horns, trampling his foes into theearth and rending them with his teeth like a beast.BAPHOMET'S LAIRBaphomet's lair is his palace, the Lyktion, which ison the layer of the Abyss called the Endless Maze.Nestled within the twisting passages of the plane-wide labyrinth, the Lyktion is immaculately main-tained and surrounded by a moat constructed in thefashion of a three-dimensional maze. The palace isa towering structure whose interior is as labyrin-thine as the plane on which it stands; it is populatedby minotaurs, goristros, and quasi ts, all of whichappear in the Monster Manual.LAIR ACTIONSOn initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties),Baphomet can take one of the following lairactions; he can't take the same lair action tworounds in a row:Illusory Room. Baphomet casts mirage arcane,affecting a room within the lairthat is no larger in any dimensionthan 100 feet. The effect ends onthe next initiative count 20. Cha-risma is Baphomet 's spellcastingability for this spell.Reverse Gravity. Baphometc hooses a room within the lairthat is no larger in any dimension than 100 feet.Until the next initiative count 20, gravity is re-versed within that room. Any creatures or objectsin the room when this happens fall in the directionof the new pull of gravity, unless they have somemeans of remaining aloft. Baphomet can ignorethe gravity reversal if he's in the room , althoughhe likes to use this action to land on a ceiling toattack targets flying near it.Seal the Way. Baphomet seals one doorway orother entryway within the lair. The opening mustbe unoccupied. It is filled with solid stone for1 minute or until Baphomet takes this lair ac-tion again.REGIONAL EFFECTSThe region containing Baphomet's lair is warpedby his magic, creating one or more of the follow-ing effects:Beguiling Realm. Within 6 miles of the lair, allCharisma (Persuasion) and Charisma (Perfor-mance) checks have disadvantage, and all Cha-risma (Deception) and Charisma (Intimidation)checks have advantage.Hedge Mazes. Plant life within 1 mile of the lairgrows thick and forms walls of trees , hedges, andother flora in the form of small mazes .Panicked Beasts. Beasts within 1 mile of the lairbecome frightened and disoriented, as though con-stantly under threat of being hunted , and mightlash out or panic even when no visible threatis nearby.If Baphomet dies, these effects fade over the courseof ldlO days.BAPHOMETHuge Fiend (Demon), Chaotic EvilArmor Class 22 (natura l armor)Hit Points 319 (22dl2 + 176)Speed 40 ft.STR30 (+10)DEX14 (+2)CON26 (+8)INT18 (+4)Saving Throws Dex +9 , Con +15 , Wis +14Skills Intimidation +17, Perc eption +14Damage Resistances cold , fire, lightningWIS24 (+7)CHA16 (+3)Damage Immunities poison; b ludgeoning, piercing, andslashing that is nonmagicalCondition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, frightened ,poiso n ed ·Senses t ruesight 120 ft ., passive Percept ion 24Languages all , telepathy 120 ft.Challenge 23 (50, 000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +7Labyrinthine Recall . Baphomet can perfectl y recall any path hehas trave led , and he is immune to the maze spell.Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Baphomet fails a saving throw ,he can choose to succeed instead.Magic Resistance. Baphomet has advantage on savi ng throwsagainst spe lls and other magical effects .ACTIONSMultiattack. Baphomet makes one Bite attack, one Goreattack, and o ne Heartcleaver attack . He also u ses Fright-ful Pre sence.Bite. Melee Weapon Atta ck: +17 to hit, reach 10 ft. , one target.Hit : 19 (2d8 + 10) pierc in g damage .58 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYCULTISTS OF BAPHOMETBaphomet grants his cultists special abilities. All hisdevotees gain the Labyrinthine Recall trait below.He grants his rank-and-file followers the UnerringTracker trait, and cult leaders gain the Incite theHunters trait.Labyrinthine Recall. This creature can perfectly recall any pathit has traveled.Unerring Tracker. As a bonus action, this creature magicallycreates a psychic link with one creature it can see. For thenext hour, as a bonus action this creature learns the currentdistance and direction to the target if it is on the same plane ofexistence. The link ends if this creature is incapacitated or if ituses this ability on a different target.Incite the Hunters (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). As anaction, this creature allows each ally within 30 feet of it that hasthe Unerring Tracker trait to make one weapon attack as a reac-tion against the target of that ally's Unerring Tracker.Gore. Melee Weapon Attack: +17 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target.Hit: 17 (2d6 + 10) piercing damage. If Baphomet moved atleast l Ofeet straight toward the target immediately before thehit, the target takes an extra 16 (3dl0) piercing damage . If thetarget is a creature , it must succeed on a DC 25 Strength sav-ing throw or be pushed up to 10 feet away and knocked prone .Heartcleaver. Melee Weapon Atta ck: +17 to hit, reach 15 ft., onetarget. Hit : 21 (2dl0 + 10) force damage .Frightful Presence . Each creature of Baphomet's choice within120 feet of him and aware of him must succeed on a DC 18Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for l minute . Afrightened creature can repeat the saving throw at the end ofeach of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Theselater saves have disadvantage if Baphomet is within line ofsight of the creature.If a creature succeeds on any of these saves or the effect endson it, the creature is immune to Baphomet's Frightful Presencefor the next 24 hours.Spellcasting. Baphomet casts one of the following spells, re-quiring no material components and using Charisma as thespellcasting ability (spell save DC 18):3/day each : dispel magic, dominate beast, maze, wall of stone1/day: teleportLEGENDARY ACTIONSBaphomet can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the op-tions below. Only one legendar y action option can be used at atime and only at the end of another creature 's turn. Baphometregains spent legendary actions at the start of his turn.Heartcleaver Attack. Baphomet makes one Heartcleaver attack.Charge (Costs 2 Actions). Baphomet moves up to his speedwithout provoking opportunity attacks , then makes aGore attack .Medium Humanoid, Any AlignmentArmor Class 15 (chain shirt)Hit Points 44 (8d8 + 8)Speed 30 ft .STR11 (+0)DEX14 (+2)CON12 (+l)Saving Throws Dex +4, Wis +3INT10 (+0)WIS13 (+l)Skills Acrobatics +4 , Perception +5 , Performance +6Senses passive Perception 15Languages any two languagesCHA14 (+2)Challenge 2 (450 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2ACTIONSMultiattack. The bard makes two Shortsword or Shortbow at-tacks. It can replace one attack with a use of Spellcasting.Shortsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., onetarget. Hit: 5 (ld6 + 2) piercing damage.Shortbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, range 80/320 ft. ,one target. Hit: 5 (ld6 + 2) piercing damage.Cacophony (Recharge 4-6). Each creature in a 15 -foot cubeoriginating from the bard must make a DC 12 Constitutionsaving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 9 (2d8) thunderdamage and is pushed up to 70 feet away from the bard. Ona successful save, a creature takes ha lf as much damage andisn't pushed.Spellcasting. The bard casts one of the following spells, usingCharisma as the spellcasting abi lity (spell save DC 72):At will: dancing lights , mage hand, prestidigitation1/ day each: charm person, invisibility, sleepBONUS ACTIONSTaunt (2/Day). The bard targets one creature within 30 feet ofit. If the target can hear the bard, the target must succeed on aDC 12 Charisma saving throw or have disadvantage on abilitychecks, attack rol ls, and saving throws until the start of thebard's next turn .BARDBards are gifted poets, storytellers, and entertain-ers who travel far and wide. They're commonlyfound in taverns or in the company of jolly bands ofadventurers, rough-and-tumble mercenaries, andwealthy patrons.Each bard is a master of at least one type of per-formance. You may choose a bard's main type , oryou may roll on the Bard Performance Types tableto determine it.BARD PERFORMANCE TYPESdlO Performance Typel Poetry2 Singing3 Bagpipe4 Flute5 Dancing6 Drum7 Lute8 Puppetry9 Mime10 ActingCHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 59IIBARGHESTLong ago, the god Maglubiyet- conqueror and thenlord of early goblinoids- bargained with the Generalof Ge henna for aid. The General provided yugoloths,which then died in service to Maglubiyet. Yet whenthe time came to honor his part of the compact,Mag lubiyet reneged on the deal. In vengeance , theGeneral of Gehenna created the sou l-devouring bar-ghests to devour goblinoid souls.The mission of every barghest , implanted in it bythe General of Gehenna, is to consume souls. It eatsthese souls by devouring the bodies of those it kills,preferring goblinoids.BARGHESTLarge Fiend, Typically Neutral EvilArmor Class 17 (natural armor)Hit Points 60 (8d10 + 16)Speed 60 ft . (30 ft . in goblin form)STR19 (+4)DEX15 (+2)CON14 (+2)INTl3 (+1)WIS12 (+l)CHA14 (+2)Skills Deception +4 , Intimidation +4 , Perception +5, Stealth +4Damage Resistances cold, lightning; bludgeoning, piercing,and slashing from nonmagical attacksDamage Immunities acid, poisonCondition Immunities poisonedSenses blindsight 60 ft ., darkvision 60 ft ., passive Perception 15Languages Abyssal , Common , Goblin, Infernal , telepathy 60 ft.Challenge 4 (1,100 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Fire Banishment. When th e bargh est starts its turn eng ulfedin flame s that are at lea st 10 fe et hi gh or wide , it mu st succeedon a DC 15 Charisma sav in g throw or be instantly banishedto Gehenna .Soul Feeding. The barghest can feed on the corpse of a Fey orHumanoid it killed within the past 10 minutes. This feedingtakes at least l minute, a nd it des troys the corpse. Th e victim 'ssou l is trapped in the barghest for 24 hours, after w hi ch time it60 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY•A barghest hungers for the day when it can com-plete its mission, return to Gehenna, and servethe General directly in his yugoloth legions, but itdoesn't kill goblinoids indiscriminately. By devour-ing the souls of goblinoid leaders and other pow-erful individuals, a barghest earns elevated statusin the afterlife. Barghests typically keep their truenature secret , preying on the occasional lone goblinwhen the opportunity arises , until they reach adult-hood and are capable of seeking out stronger prey.A barghest avoids contact with large, open fires.Any conflagration larger than its body acts as a gate-way to Gehenna and banishes it to that plane, whereit is likely to be slain or ens laved by a yugoloth forits failure.is di ges ted an d the person is inca pa bl e of bein g revived. If thebarghe st dies before the so ul is di ges ted, th e so ul is rel eased.While a so ul is trapped in the barghest, any magic that tries torestore the sou l to life has a 50 percent chance of failing a ndbeing wasted .ACTIONSMultiattack. The barghest makes one Bite attack and oneClaw attack.Bite. Melee Weapon Atta ck: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft ., one targe t.Hit : 13 (2d8 + 4) piercing damage.Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.Hit : 8 (ld8 + 4) slashin g dama ge.Spellcasting. The barghest casts one of the following spells,requiring no material components and usin g Charisma as thespellca sting abi lity (spell save DC 12):At wi ll: levitate, minor illusion, pass without trace1/ day each: charm person, dimension door, suggestionBONUS ACTIONSChange Shape. The barghest transforms into a Smal l goblin orback into it s true form . Other than its size and speed, its sta-tistics are the same in each form . Any equipment it is wear in gor ca rr yin g isn't transformed . The barghest reverts to its trueform if it dies.BERBALANGBerbal angs creep across the petrified remai ns ofdead gods adrift on the Astral Plane. Obsessed withgathering secrets, both from the gods they inhabitand from the bones of dead creatures, they ca ll forththe spirits of the dead and force them to divulgewhat they learned in life.Berbalangs prefer to speak only to dead things,and specifically only to the sp i rits they call forth inthe hope of learning secrets. They record their sto-ries on the bones that once be longed to these crea-tures, thus preserving the information they gain.Pursuit of knowledge drives everything berbal-angs do. Although they mostly learn their secretsfrom the dead, they aren't above spying on the livingto take knowledge from them as well. A berbalangcan create a spectral duplicate of itself and sendthe duplicate out to gather information on otherplanes by watching places where the gods and theirservants gather. When a berbalang is perceiving itsenvironment through its duplicate, its actual body isunconscious and can't protect itself. Thus , a berbal -ang typically uses its duplicate for only a short timebefore returning its consciousness to its body.The knowledge that berbalangs accumulatemakes them great sources of information for pow-erful people traveling the planes. Berbalangs ignorepetitioners, however, u nless they come bearing achoice secret or the bones of a particularly inter-esting creat ure. Some githyanki have been able tostrike deals with the creatures, using berbalangs tospy on their enemies and to watch over their crecheson the Material Plane.BERBALANGMe di um Ab erration , Typically Neut ral EvilArmor Class 14 (natural armor)Hit Points 49 (l4d8 - 14)Speed 30 ft., fly 40 ft.STR9 (- 1)DEX16 (+3)CON9 (- 1)Saving Throws De x +5 , Int +5INT17 (+3)WISll (+0)CHA10 (+0)Skills Arcana +5, History +5, Insight +2, Perception +2,Religion +5Senses truesight 120 ft., passive Perception 12Languages allChallenge 2 (450 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2ACTIONSMultiattack. Th e berbalang ma ke s one Bi te att ack and oneCl aw attack.Bite. Melee We apo n Attack: +5 to hit, reac h 5 ft ., o ne target .Hit: 8 (ldl0 + 3) pi ercing damage plu s 4 (ld 8) psych ic damage.Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit , reac h 5 ft. , one target.Hit : 8 (2 d4 + 3) slas hi ng damage.Sp ellcasting. The berbalang casts one of the follow ing spe ll s,re quirin g no mater ia l co mp onents an d using Inte ll ige n ce as th espe llcasting abilit y:At w ill : speak wi th deadl /day: plane shift (self on ly)BONUS ACTIONSSpectral Duplicate (Recharges after a Sho rt or Long Rest ). T heberbalang creates one s pect ral dupli cate of itself in an un oc-cu pied s pace it ca n see withi n 60 feet of it . Whi le the duplicateex ists, th e ber ba lang is un co nscious. A be rb alang ca n h ave on lyo ne d upli cate at a tim e. Th e duplica te disappears when it orth e berbal ang dro ps to 0 hit po ints or when the be rb ala ng dis-misses it (no ac ti on re qui re d).Th e dupli cate has the sa me sta ti stics a nd kn ow ledge asth e ber bala ng, and everythi ng expe ri en ce d by the dup li cate isknow n by th e be rb alan g. All damage d ea lt by the du pli cate 'sattacks is psychi c damage.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 6IBHEUR HAGBheur hags live in wintry lands, favoring snowymountains. These hags become more active duringwinter, using their ice and weather magic to makelife miserable for nearby settlements.A bheur hag's skin has the bluish hue of a personwho has frozen to death. The hag's hair is white,and the hag is emaciated, with pale eyes surroundedby bruise-colored flesh. A bheur hag carries atwisted gray wooden staff that can be ridden like aflying broom and that augments the hag's magic.Bheur hags are attracted to selfish actions in-spired by deadly cold, such as murdering a travelerfor a winter coat or chopping down a dryad's grovefor firewood. These actions are especially sweet toa bheur if they are unwarranted, such as a greedymerchant hoarding excess food for the winter whileothers starve. Bheurs use their ability to manipulateweather to batter villages with freezing cold, hopingto instill a despair that turns folk against each other.In combat , a bheur hag also strives to inspirehorror. When near a recently slain foe, the hag mayforgo an attack to feed on the corpse. The sight ofthis butchery is enough to terrify most witnesses.HAG COVENSA bheur hag that is part of a coven (see the "HagCovens" sidebar in the Monster Manual) has a chal-lenge rating of 9 (5,000 XP).62 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYBHEURHAGMedium Fey, Typically Chaotic E~ilArmor Class 17 (natural armor)Hit Points 91 (l4d8 + 28)Speed 30 ft ., fly 50 ft. (hover, Graystaff Magic)STRl3 (+l)DEX16 (+3)Saving Throws Wis +4CON14 (+2)INT12 (+l)WISl3 (+l)i...CHA16 (+3)Skills Nature +4, Perception +4, Stealth +6 , Survival +4Damage Immunities coldSenses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perce ption 14Languages Au ran , Co mmon , GiantChallenge 7 (2 ,900 XP) Proficiency Bonus +3Control Weather (1/Day). The hag can cast the control weatherspell, requiring no material components and using Charisma asthe spel lc asting ability.Graystaff Magic. The hag carries a graystajf. a magic staff. Thehag can use its flying speed only while astride the staff. If thestaff is lost or destroyed , the hag must craft another, whichtakes a year and a day. Only a bheur hag can use a graystaff.Ice Walk. The hag can move across and cl imb icy surfaces with-out needing to make an ability check, and difficult terrain com -posed of ice or snow doesn't cost the hag extra moment.ACTIONSMultiattack. The hag makes two Slam or Frost Shard attacks.Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one tar-get. Hit: 10 (2d8 + l) bludgeoning damage plus 18 (4d8)cold damage.Frost Shard. Ranged Spell Attack: +6 to hit, range 60 ft., onetarget. Hit: 30 (6d8 + 3) cold damage, and the target's speed isreduced by 10 feet until the start of the hag's next turn .Horrific Feast. The hag feeds on the corpse of one enemywithin reach that died within the past minute. Each creatureof the hag's choice that is within 60 feet and able to see thefeeding must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or befrightened of the hag for l minute. While frightened in this wa y,a creature is incapacitated, can't understand what others sa y,can't read, and speaks only in gibberish. A creature can repeatthe saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending theeffect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is suc-cessful or the effect ends for it , the creature is immune to thehag's Horrific Feast for the next 24 hours.Spellcasting. While holding or riding the graystajf. the hagcasts one of the following spells, requiring no material com-ponents and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spellsave DC 14):At will: hold person1/day each: cone of cold, ice storm, wall of iceMedium Humanoid (Paladin), Typically Neutral EvilArmor Class 18 (plate)Hit Points 119 (14d8 + 56)Speed 30 ft .STR18 (+4)DEX11 (+0)CON18 (+4)Saving Throws Wis +5, Cha +5INT11 (+0)WIS14 (+2)Skills Athletics +7, Deception +5, Intimidation +5Senses passive Perception 12Languages any one language (usually Common)CHA15 (+2)Challenge 8 (3 ,900 XP) Proficiency Bonus +3ACTIONSMultiattack. The blackguard makes three attacks, using Glaive,Sho rtbow, or both.Glaive. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 10 ft., onetarget. Hit: 9 (ldl0 + 4) slashing damage plus 9 (2d8) ne-crotic damage .Shortbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +3 to hit , range 80/320 ft.,one target. Hit: 5 (1 d6 + 2) piercing damage.Dreadful Aspect (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). Eachenemy within 30 feet of the blackguard must succeed on a DC13 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened of the blackguardfor l minute . If a frightened target ends its turn more than 30feet away from the blackguard, the target can repeat the savingthrow , ending the effect on itself on a success.Spellcasting. The blackguard casts one of the following spells,using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 13):2/day each: command, dispel magic,find steedBONUS ACTIONSSmite. Immediately after the blackguard hits a target with anattack roll, the blackguard can force that target to make a DC 13Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the target suffersone of the following effects of the blackguard 's choice:Blind . The target is blinded for 1 minute. The blinded targetcan repeat the save at the end of each of its turns, ending theeffect on it self on a success.Shove . The target is pu shed up to 10 feet away andknocked prone.BLACKGUARDBlackguards are paladins who broke their sacredoaths and now indulge their own villainous ambi-tions. They consort with Fiends and Undead, andthey reject many of the goodly things from theirformer lives.Blackguards often adorn their armor and weaponswith dread accoutrements or are marked by eeriephenomena. You may choose a blackguard 's accou-trement or roll on the Blackguard Accoutrementstable to determine it.BLACKGUARD ACCOUTREMENTSd8 Accoutrement2345678Armor etched with stylized depictions of grue-some battlesHelm wrought in the shape of a demonic boarHelm wrought to resemble a death maskCloak decorated with bloody hand printsCurls of inky smoke seeping from armor at thejointsDozens of flies buzzing about the blackguardSevered hand hanging from a chain around theblackguard's neckGlaive adorned with a length of cloth bearingthe words "I choose violence"ICHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 63BODAKA bodak is the undying remains of someone whorevered Orcus (appears in this book). Devoid of lifeand soul, it exists only to cause death.A worshiper of Orcus can take ritual vows whilecarving the demon lord's symbol on their chestover the heart. Orcus's power flays body, mind, andsoul, leaving behind a sentient husk that consumeslife energy near it. Most bodaks come into being inthis way, then are unleashed to spread death in Or-cus's name.Bodaks are extensions of Orcus's will outside theAbyss, serving the demon prince's aims and otherminions. Orcus can recall anything a bodak sees orhears. If he so chooses, he can speak through a bo-dak to address his enemies and followers directly.A bodak retains vague impressions of its past life.It seeks out its former allies and enemies alike todestroy them, as its warped soul seeks to erase any-thing connected to its former life. Minions of Orcusare the one exception to this compulsion; a bodakrecognizes them as kindred souls and spares themfrom its wrath . Anyone who knew the individualbefore its transformation into a bodak can recog-nize mannerisms or other subtle clues to its origi-nal identity.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYBODAKMed ium Un dead, Typically Chaotic EvilArmor Class 15 (natural armor)Hit Points 58 (9d8 + 18)Speed 30 ft .STR15 (+2)DEX16 (+3)CON15 (+2)Skills Perception +4, Stealth +6INT7 (-2)WIS12 (+l)CHA12 (+l)Damage Resistances cold, fire; bludgeon ing, piercing , andslashing from nonmagical attacksDamage Immunities necrotic , poisonCondition Immunities charmed, frightened , poisonedSenses darkvision 120 ft ., pas s ive Perception 14Languages Abyssal , the languages it knew in lifeChallenge 6 (2 , 300 XP) Proficiency Bonus +3Death Gaze. When a creature that can see the bodak's eyesstarts its turn within 30 feet of the bodak , the bodak can forceit to make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw if the bodak isn 'tincapacitated and can see the creature. If the sav in g throw failsby 5 or more, the creature is reduced to O hit points unless itis immune to the frightened condition . Otherwise , a creaturetakes 16 (3dl0) psychic damage on a failed save.Unless surprised, a creature can avert its eyes to avoid thesav in g throw at the start of its turn. If the creature does so,it has disadvantage on attack rolls against the bodak untilthe start of its next turn. If the creature looks at the bodakin the meantime , that creature must immed iately make thesaving thro w.Sunlight Hypersensitivity. The bodak takes 5 radiant damagewhen it starts its turn in sun li g ht . Whi le in sunlight , it has dis-advantage on attack rolls and ability checks.Unusual Nature. Th e bodak doesn't require air, food,drink , or sleep .ACTIONSFist. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit , reach 5 ft., one target. Hit :4 (ld4 + 2) bludgeoning damage plus 9 (2d8) necrotic damage.Withering Gaze. One creature that the bodak can see within 60feet of it must make a DC 13 Constitution savi ng throw, taking22 (4dl0) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as muchdamage on a s uccessful one .BONUS ACTIONSAura of Annihilation. The bodak activates or deactivates thisdeathly aura . While active , the aura deals 5 necrotic damage toany creature that ends it s turn within 30 feet of the bodak. Un-dead and Fiends ignore this effect .BOGGLESmall Fey, Typically Chaotic NeutralArm or Class 14Hit Po int s 18 (4 d6 + 4)Speed 30 ft., clim b 30 ft .STR8 (-1)DEX18 (+4)CON13 (+l)INT6 (-2)WIS12 (+1)Skills Perception +5, Sleight of Hand +6, Stealth +6Da mage Resistances fireSense s darkvision 60 ft. , passive Perception 15Lang uages SylvanCHA7 (-2)Chall enge 1/8 (25 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2ACTIONSPummel. Melee Weapon Attack: +l to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.Hit : 2 (ld6 - 1) bludgeoning damage.Oil Puddle. The boggle creates a puddle of nonflammableoil. The puddle is 1 inch deep and covers the ground in theboggle's space. The puddle is difficult terrain for all creaturesexcept boggles and lasts for 1 hour. The oil has one of the fol -lowing additional effects of the boggle's choice:Sli pp ery O il. Any non-boggle creature that enters the pudd le orstarts its turn there must succeed on a DC 11 Dexterity sav-ing throw or fall prone.Sticky Oil. Any non-boggle creature that enters the puddle orsta rts its turn there must succeed on a DC 11 Strength savingthrow or be restrained. On its turn , a creature can use anaction to try to extricate itself, ending the effect and movinginto the nearest unoccupied space of its choice with a suc-cessful DC 11 Strength check.BON US A CTI ONSBogg le Oil . The boggle excretes nonflammable oil from itspores, giv ing itse lf one of th e fo llowing benefits of its cho iceuntil it uses this bonus action again:Slippery O il. The boggle has advantage on De xter ity (Acrobat-ics) checks made to escape bonds and end grapples, and itcan move through openings large enough for a Tiny creaturewithout squeezing.Sticky Oil. The boggle has advantage on Strength (Athletics)checks made to grapple and any ability check made to main -tain a hold on another creature, a surface, or an object. Theboggle can also climb difficult surfaces, includ ing upsidedown on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check.Dimen sional Rift. The boggle creates an inv isib le and immobi lerift within an opening or frame it can see within 5 feet of it , pro-vided that the space is no bigger than 10 feet on any side. Thedimensional rift bridges the distance between that space anda point within 30 feet of it that the boggle can see or specify bydistance and direction (such as " 30 feet straight up" ). Whilenext to the rift, the boggle can see through it and is consideredto be next to the destination as well, and anything the boggleputs through the rift (including a portion of its body) emergesat the destination. Only the boggle can use the rift, and it lastsuntil the end of the boggle's next turn.BOGGLEBoggles are the little bogeys of fairy tales. They lurkin the fringes of the Feywild and are also found onthe Materi al Plane , where they hide under be ds andin closets, waiting to frighten a nd bedev il folk withtheir mischief.Boggles are born out of feelings of loneliness.Th ey mat er ialize when a sapient being fee ls iso-lated or abandoned near a place where the Feywildtouches the world. For example, a forsaken childmight unintentionally conjure a boggle and seethem as a sort of imaginary friend. A boggle mightalso appear in the attic of a lonely widower's houseor in a hermit's cave.Boggles engage in petty pranks to amuse them-selves, using the oil they excrete to ca use trouble.A boggle also isn't above breaking dishes, hidingtools, startling cows to decreas e their milk, or hid-ing a baby in an attic. Although a boggle's anticsmight cause distress and unintentional harm, mis -chief- not mayhem-is usually the intent. If threat -ened, a boggle flees rather than stand and fight.A boggle can create magical openings to travelshort distances or to pilfer items that would other-wise be beyond its reach. To create such a rift inspace, a boggle must be adjacent to a space definedby a frame, such as an open window or a doorway,a gap betw ee n the bars of a cage, or the openingbetw ee n the feet of a bed and the floor. The rift isinvisible and disappears after a few seconds- justenough time for the boggle to step, reach, or attackthrough it.CHAPTER 2 I BEST I A RY 65BONECLAWA wizard who tries to become a lich but fails mightbecome a boneclaw instead. These hideous, cack-ling monsters share a few of liches' attributes, butwhile liches are immortal masters of the arcane,boneclaws are thralls to evil, hatred, and pain.The most important part of the transformationritual occurs when the soul of the aspiring lichmigrates to a prepared phylactery. If the wizardis too physically or magically weak to compel thesoul into its new home, the soul instead seeks outa master - a person within a few miles who has ahate-filled heart. The soul bonds to that person andbecomes enslaved to its new master's wishes. Theboneclaw forms near its master, sometimes appear-ing before that individual to receive orders and othertimes simply seeking to fulfill its master's desires.A boneclaw can serve only an evil creature. If itsmaster finds redemption or sincerely turns awayfrom the path of evil, the boneclaw is destroyed.Otherwise, a boneclaw can't be destroyed while itsmaster lives. No matter what happens to the bone-claw's body, it re-forms within hours.In service to its master, a boneclaw delights incausing horrific pain. It lurks like a spider in shad-owy recesses, waiting for victims to approach withinreach of its long, bony limbs. Once speared, a crea-ture is pulled into the darkness to be sliced apart.BONECLAWLarge Undead, Typically Chaotic EvilArmor Class 16 (natural armor)Hit Points 150 (20dl0 + 40)Speed 40 ft .STR19 (+4)DEX16 (+3)CON15 (+2)INT13 (+ l)Saving Throws Dex +7, Con +6, Wis +6Skills Perception +6, Stealth +7Damage Resistances cold , necro ti cWIS15 (+ 2)CHA9 (-1)Condition Immunities charmed , ex haustion , frightened ,paralyz ed, poisonedSenses darkv ision 60 ft ., passive Percept ion 16languages Common plus one language spoken by its masterChallenge 12 (8 ,400 XP) Proficiency Bonus +4Rejuvenatio n. While its master lives , a destroyed boneclawgains a new body in l d l 0 hours , with a ll its hit points . T he newbody appears withi n l mi le of t he boneclaw's master.Unusual Nature. The boneclaw doesn't require air, food ,drink, or sleep.66 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYACTIONSMultiattack. The boneclaw makes two Piercing Claw attacks.Piercing Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit , reach 15 ft. , onetarget. Hit: 20 (3d l 0 + 4) piercing damage plus 11 (2dl0) ne-crotic damage. If the target is a creature, the boneclaw can pullthe target up to lO feet toward itse lf, and the target is grapp led(escape DC 14). The boneclaw has two claws. Whi le a clawgrapp les a target , the claw can attack onl y that target.Sh adowJump (Recharge 5-6). If the boneclaw is in dim lightor darkness , each creature of the boneclaw's choice within 15feet of it must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution sa ving throw ortake 34 (5d l 2 + 2) necrotic damage.The boneclaw then te leports up to 60 feet to an unoccupiedspace it can see . It can bring one creature it's grappling , te le-port ing that creature to an unoccupied space it can see within5 feet of its destination. The destination spaces of this telepor-tation must be in dim light or darkness.BONUS ACTIONSShadow Stealth. Whi le in dim light or darkness , the boneclawtakes the H ide act ion.REACTIONSDeadly Reach . In response to a creature entering a space within15 feet of it, the boneclaw makes one Pierc ing Claw attackagainst that creature .BULEZAUDiseased manifestations of animalistic rage,bulezaus embody the violence of nature. Across theAbyss , thes e demons lurk in deep canyons and loftycrags, and many find a place in the ranks of demonlords' armies, serving as foot soldiers in the Abyss'sendless warring.Bulezaus crave violence. Their eagerness to killand willingness to die make them common me m-bers of many demon lords' entourages. When notbeing corralled by larger and tougher demons,bulezaus gather into scrabbling mobs , wrestlingand fighting among themselves until a better targetcomes along or until a stronger demon bullies theminto subservience.Disfiguring ailments plague bulezaus: crustedeyes, maggots wriggling in open sores, and a reek ofrotten meat that follows them wherever they go.BULEZAUMedium Fiend (Demon), Typically Chaotic E~ilArmor Class 14 (natural armor)Hit Points 52 ( 7d8 + 21)Speed 40 ft.STR15 (+2)DEX14 (+2)CON17 (+3)INT8 (-1)Damage Resistances cold, fire, lightningDamage Immunities poisonWIS9 (-1)Condition Immunities charmed, frightened , poisonedSenses darkv ision 120 ft ., passive Perception 9Languages Ab yssa l, telepathy 60 ft .CHA6 (- 2)Challenge 3 (700 X P) Proficiency Bonus +2Rotting Presence. When any creature that isn 't a demon startsits turn within 30 feet of the bulezau , that creature must suc-ceed on a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or take 3 (ld6)necrotic damage.Standing Leap. The bulezau's long jump is up to 20 feet and itshigh jump is up to l Ofeet, with or without a running start.Sure-Footed. The bulezau has advantage on Strength andDexterity saving throws made against effects that wouldknock it prone.ACTIONSBarbed Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., onetarget. Hit: 8 (ldl2 + 2) piercing damage plus 4 (ld8) necroticdamage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 13Constitution saving throw against disease or become poisoneduntil the disease ends. While poisoned in this way, the targetsports festering boils, cough s up flies, and sheds rotting skin,and the target must repeat the saving throw after every 24hours that elapse. On a successful save, the disease ends. Ona failed s ave , the target's hit point maximum is reduced by 4(ld8). The target dies if its hit point maximum is reduced to 0.ICHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 67CADAVER COLLECTORThe ancient war machines known as cadaver collec-tors lumber aimlessly across the blasted plains ofAcheron until they are called upon by a necroman-cer to bolster the ranks of a conquering army on theMaterial Plane. These fearsome Constructs obeytheir summoners until they are dismissed back toAcheron, but if a summoner comes to a bad end, acadaver collector might wander the Material Planefor centuries, collecting corpses while searching fora way to return home.Cadaver collectors respond to a summons from amortal only when they are called to the scene of agreat battle-either where one is in progress, whereone is imminent, or where one once took place.They encase themselves in the armor and weaponsof fallen warriors and impale the corpses of thosewarriors on the lances and other weapons embed-ded in their salvaged armor.Corpses that accumulate on a cadaver collector'sshell aren't just grisly battle trophies. A cadaver col-lector can summon the spirits of these cadavers tobattle against its enemies. Although these spectersare individually weak, a cadaver col-lector can call up an almost endlesssupply of them, if given enough time.CADAVER COLLECTORLarge Construct, Typically Lawful EvilArmor Class 17 (natural armor)Hit Po ints 189 (18dl0 + 90)Speed 30 ft.STR21 (+ 5)DEX14 (+2)CON20 (+5)INT5 (-3 )WIS11 (+ 0)CHA8 (- 1)Damage Immunities necrot ic, po iso n, psyc hi c; bludgeo ning,piercing, a nd slas hing from no nma g ic al attacks that aren 'tadamantin eCondition Immunities charmed , exhaus ti on, frightened ,paralyzed, petrified , poison edSenses darkv is ion 60 ft ., pa ss ive Perce ptio n 10Languages un ders tands a ll langu ages bu t ca n 't speakChallenge 14 (11 ,5 00 XP) Proficiency Bonus +5Magic Resistance. The co ll ector has advantage on savingthrows against spel ls and other magical effects .Unusual Nature. The collector doesn't require air, food,drink, or sleep .68 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYACTIONSMultiattack. The co ll ector makes two Slam attacks.Slam. Melee Weapon Attack:+10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target .Hit: 18 (3d8 + 5) bludgeoning damage p lu s 16 (3dl0) ne-crotic damage.Paralyzing Breath (Recharge 5-6) . Th e collector releases par-alyzing gas in a 30-foot cone. Each creature in that area mustmake a successful DC 18 Constitution saving throw or be par-alyzed for 1 minute. A paralyzed creature repeats the savingthrow at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itselfwith a success.BONUS ACTIONSSummon Specters (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). Thecol lector ca ll s up the enslaved spirits of those it has slain; ld4specters (without Sunlight Sensitivity; see the Monster Manual)ar ise in unoccupied spaces within 15 feet ofit. The specters actright after the col lector on the same initiative count and fightuntil they're destroyed. They disappear when the collector isdestroyed .ac=CANOLOTHA type of yugoloth, canoloths are fiendish trackersand guardians employed by evil powers. They prefe rto enter into co ntracts to guard va luab le tr eas uresand important locations. They always do exactly asasked- never any more, never any less.With senses sharp enough to pinpoint the loca-tions of nearby invisible creatures, canoloths re-spond unfailingly to any thr ea t to th eir charges. Fur-thermore, they emit a magical distortion field thatprevents creatures close to the m from teleporting.Canoloths co nfront intruders with swift and ter-ribl e force, proj ecting long, spiny tongu es to grabtheir fo es and drag them close. What happ e ns nextdepends on the contract. Unless instructed to kill, aca noloth merely holds on to its prisoner , but if giventhe order to do so, it tears its prey limb from limb.CANOLOTHMedium Fiend (Yugo/0th), Typically Neutral EvilArmor Class 16 (natural armor)Hit Points 120 (l 6d8 + 48)Speed 50 ft .STR18 (+ 4)DEX10 (+O)CON17 (+3)INT5 (-3)Skills Investigation +3, Percept io n +9WIS17 (+ 3)CHA12 (+l)Damage Resistances cold, fire , lig htning; bludgeoning,piercing, and slashing from nonmagical attacksDamage Immunities acid , poisonCondition Immunities poisonedSenses truesight 120 ft. , passive Perception 19Languages Ab yssal, Infernal , telepathy 60 ft .Challenge 8 (3 ,900 XP) Proficiency Bonus +3Dimensional Lock . Other creatures can't teleport to or froma space within 60 feet of the canoloth . Any attempt to do sois wasted.Magic Resistance. The canoloth has advantage on savingthrows aga inst spells and other magical effects.Uncanny Senses. The canoloth can 't be surprised unless it 'sincapacitated.ACTIONSMultiattack. The canoloth makes one Bite or Tongue attackand one Claw attack.Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.Hit: 7 (ld6 + 4) piercing damage plus 18 (4d8) force damage.Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft. , one target.Hit: 7 (ld6 + 4) slash ing damage plus 9 (2d8) force damage .Tongue. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 30 ft., onetarget. Hit: 10 (ldl2 + 4) piercin g damage plus 7 (2d6) aciddamage. If the target is Medium or sma ller, it is grapp led (es-cape DC 15), pulled up to 30 feet toward the canoloth, and re -strained until the grapple ends . The canoloth can grapple onetarget at a time with its tongue.CHAPTER 2 / BESTIARY hOCATOBLEPASThe ca tobl epas is as loathsom e as the vile swamp-lands in which it liv es, a conglomeration of bloatedbuffalo, dinosaur, warthog, and hippopotamusparts. D esp ite its ungainly physiology, a ca tobl epasresembles a natural animal in its behavior, amblingthrough its marshy hom e, mun ching choice vegeta-tion, ea ting th e occasional bit of carrion, and wal-lowing in mir e. A catoblepas might be found withthe one mate it c hoos es for life a nd , on occasion,with a calf. A cato bl e pa s attacks anyone that mov estoo close, especia ll y if guarding its young.A catoblepas's st ink , like the stench of deathmixed with swamp gas an d skunk musk, gives itaway as being much mor e ghastly than its appear-ance suggests. When it is on th e attack, a catoblepasrev ea ls the extent of its horrific na tur e. The crea-ture's serpentine n ec k has trouble lifting its h ea d,but one gl a re from its bloodshot eyes can rot fl esh.At the end of its tail is a club that can rattle body andsoul if it strikes true , leaving a victim unable to actwhile the ca toblepas feasts on its body.BLIGHTED TERRITORYA catoblepas's natur e as a creature of dis ease anddecay brings out similar c hara cteristics in th e crea-tur e's sw a mpy habitat. Su ch a we tland bec om esgloomy, tangled , and mor e fetid than it was before .Beneficial qualities of the e nvironment , such ashealing he rbs and clean water, b ec om e d eg rad ed,and swamp gases take on a hint of th e catoblepas'sfoulness. Animals in the area are mor e a ggr ess iv eand liable to be dis ea sed . Deg ene rate c reatures arelikely to tak e up residenc e near a catoblepas's terri-tory, as are thos e seeking to avoid notice.CATOBLEPASES IN FOLKLOREOrdinary folk rarely see a cato bl e pas , but the crea-tur e has such a feare d reputation that s tories aboutit are ingrained in the popular c ultur e. Any rumor of70 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY•a ca toblepas taking up residence nearby is taken tobe a bad omen, even if the rumor is proven false. Insome lands, the silhouette of a ca toblepas, with itstail extended over its bod y a nd its h ea d held low, is aba leful h era ldic figure signifying death or doom.Sages say that gods of p est il ence a nd rot crea tedcatoblep ases as emb od iments of their influence,while other stories link them to misfortune. Somesuc h tales claim that swamp- dw elling h ags tendcatoble pa ses like catt le, drinking the mon ste r s'milk and u si ng them as guardians or pets. Otherlegends say that those of impure h eart ca n tame aca tobl epas an d whisper of malevole nt warlocks andwicked knights who ride them into b att le.CATOBLEPASLarg e Mon stro sity, Unalign edArmor Class 14 (natural armor)Hit Points 84 (8dl0 + 40)Speed 30 ft.STR19 (+4)DEX12 (+l)Skills Perception +5CON21 (+5)INT3 (- 4)WIS14 (+ 2)Senses darkvision 60 ft. , passive Perception 15Languages -CHA8 (-1)Challenge 5 (1,800 XP) Proficiency Bonus +3Stench. Any creature other than a catoblepas that starts itsturn within 10 feet of the catoblepas must succeed on a DC 16Constitution saving throw or be poisoned until the start of thecreature's next turn. On a successful saving throw, the creatureis immune to the Stench of any catoblepas for l hour.ActionsTail. Mele e Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target.Hit: 21 (5d6 + 4) bludgeoning damage, and the target mustsucceed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or be stunneduntil the start of the catoblepas 's next turn .Death Ray (Recharge 5- 6). The catoblepas targets one creatureit can see wit hin 30 feet ofit. The target must make a DC 16Constitution saving throw, ta king 36 (8d8) ne crotic dam a geon a failed save, or half as much damage on a succe ssful one.If the saving throw fails by 5 or mor e, the target instead takes64 necrotic damage. The target dies if reduced to O hit pointsby this ray.CATTLEMany kinds of cattle roam the multiverse, some ofthem domesticated and others feral. In many cul-tures, cattle are almost like family to the folk whotend to them.AU RO CHSAn aurochs is a large, fierce bovine with juttinghorns. In many lands , herds of aurochs roam free ,while elsewhere ores and humans train them froman early age to carry riders into combat.AUROCHSLa rge Beast (C att/~), Unalign ~dArmor Class 11 (natural armor)Hit Points 38 (4dl0 + 16)Speed 50 ft.STR20 (+ 5)DEX10 (+ 0)CON19 (+4)Senses passive Perc eption 11Languages-Challenge 2 (450 X P)ACTIONSINT2 (- 4)WIS12 (+ l)CHA5 (- 3)Proficiency Bonus +2Gore. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit , reach 5 ft., one target.Hit : 14 (2d8 + 5) piercing damage. If the aurochs moved atleast 20 feet straight toward the target immediatel y before thehit, the target takes an extra 9 (2d8) piercin g damage , and thetarget must succeed on a DC 15 Strength sav in g throw or beknocked prone if it is a creature.DEEP ROTHEDeep rothe are Underdark catt le that commun icatewith one another using the dancing lights spell.Some scholars speculate that rothe came originallyfrom the Feywild and brought the ability to cast thespell with them. Other sages attribute the ability tothe centuries rothe have spent in the Underdark,where ambient magic slowly transforms everything.DEEP ROTHEMedium Be as t (Catt le), Una lignedArmor Class 10Hit Points 13 (2d8 + 4)Speed 30 ft.STR18 (+4)DEX10 (+0)CON14 (+2)INT2 (- 4)WIS10 (+0)Senses darkvi si on 60 ft ., pa s sive Pe rception 10Languages -CHA4 (- 3)Challenge 1/4 (50 X P) Proficiency Bonus +2Beast of Burden. The rot he is considered to be one size largerfor the purpose of determining its carrying capacity.ACTIONSGore. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit , reach 5 ft ., one target.Hit : 7 (ld6 + 4) piercing damage. If the rothe moved at least 20feet straig ht toward the target immediatel y before the hit, thetarget takes an extra 7 (2d6) piercing damage.Dancing Lights. The roth e casts dancing lights, requiring nospell components and using Wisdom as the s pellc ast in g ability.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 71OxOxen are domesticated ca ttle bred for milk andmeat production and for hauling. Many c ultures in-corporate the ox into their labor and diets.STENCH KowStench kows are misshapen bison native to theLower Planes. Thes e orange and green creaturesOxLarge Beast (Cattle), Unalign edArmor Class 10Hit Points 15 (2dl0 + 4)Speed 30 ft.STR18 (+4)DEX10 (+ 0)CON14 (+ 2)Senses pas s ive Perception l 0Languages -Challenge 1/4 (50 XP)INT2 (- 4)WIS10 (+0)CHA4 (- 3)Proficiency Bonus +2Beast of Burden. The ox is considered to be on e s ize larger forthe purpose of determining its ca rrying capacity.ACTIONSGore. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target .Hit: 7 (l d6 + 4) piercing dama ge . If the ox moved at least 20feet s traight toward the target immed iate ly before the hit , theta rget takes an extra 7 (2d6) piercing d am age.72 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYdefend themselves by exuding a miasma so hideousas to be toxic. Some mischievous and malevolentwizards have summoned stench kows to the Mate-rial Plane, disguised the creatures as oxen, and letthe infernal bison loose on unsuspecting villages.STENCH KowLarge Fiend (Cattle) , Unal igne dArmor Class l 0Hit Points 15 (2dl0 + 4)Speed 30 ft.STR18 (+ 4)DEX10 (+ 0)CON14 (+ 2)INT2(-4)Damage Resistances cold , fire, poisonWIS10 (+ 0)Senses darkvision 60 ft. , pa ss ive Perception l 0Languages -CHA4 (- 3)Challenge 1/ 2 (50 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Stench. Any creature other than a stench kow that starts itsturn within 5 feet of t he stench kow must succeed on a DC 12Constitution saving throw or be poisoned until the start of thecreature's next turn. On a successful saving throw , the creatureis immune to the Stench of al l stench kows fo r l hour.ACTIONSGore. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit , reach 5 ft. , one target .Hit: 7 (ld6 + 4) piercing damage . If the stench kow moved atleast 20 feet straight toward the target immediately before thehit , the target takes an extra 7 (2d6) piercing damage."00z~"'CAVE FISHERA cave fisher is a subterranean arachnid with a longsnout that houses spinnerets, enabling the creatureto produce sticky filaments, much like the strandsof a spider's webbing, which the creature uses tosnag prey.A cave fisher usually hunts small animals and isparticularly fond of bats, so it stretches a filamentover an opening that such prey might travel through.It then climbs to a hiding spot and adheres itself tothe surface to rest and wait. When prey blundersinto the filament, the cave fisher reels in its meal. Agroup of cave fishers might work together to covera large area with filaments , but as soon as one cap -tures potential food, every cave fisher in the areacompetes for the prize. If a victim escapes from theinitial ambush , a cave fisher can reclaim its prey byshooting a filament out to capture it again .Scarce food might draw a group of cave fishers upto the surface, into a shadowy canyon or a gloomyforest that features both native animal prey andcreatures such as explorers or travelers occasion-ally moving through the area .VALUABLE PARTSNearly every part of a cave fisher is useful after thecreature has been dispatched. Cave fisher filamentscan be woven into rope that is thin , tough, andnearly invisible. The creature 's shell is used in themanufacture of tools, armor, and jewelry. Its bloodis alcoholic and tastes like strong liquor. Severaldwarven spirits include cave fisher blood, and somedwarves , especially berserkers , drink the bloodstraight. Cave fisher meat is edible, tasting muchlike crab cooked in strong wine.While some folk hunt cave fishers to kill them toharvest their filaments, shells, and blood, otherscapture cave fisher eggs and rear the hatchlings,which can be tra i ned to guard passages or serve asbeasts of war. Cave fishers have a natural aversionto fire, since their blood is flammable . As such , Un-derdark denizens often use the threat of fire whentraining them .CAVE FISHERMedium Monstrosity, UnalignedArmor Class 16 (natura l armor)Hit Points 58 (9d8 + 18)Speed 20 ft. , climb 20 ft.STR16 (+3)DEX13 (+l)CON14 (+2)Skills Perception +2, Stealth +5INT3 (- 4)WIS10 (+ O)Senses blindsight 60 ft ., passive Perception 12Languages -CHA3 (-4)Challenge 3 (700 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Flammable Blood. If the cave fisher drops to half its hit pointsor fewer, it gains vulnerabi lity to fire damage.Spider Climb. The cave fisher can climb difficu lt surfaces in-cluding upside down on cei lings, without needing to make anability check.ACTIONSMultiattack. The cave fisher makes two Claw attacks.Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft. , one target.Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) slashing damage.Retract Filament. One Large or sma ller creature grappledby the cave fisher's Adhesive Filament must make a DC 13Strength saving throw. On a failed save, the target is pulled intoan unoccupied space within 5 feet of the cave fisher, and thecave fisher makes one Claw attack against it. Anyone else whowas attached to the filament is released. Until the grapple endson the target, the cave fisher can't use Adhesive Filament.BONUS ACTIONSAdhesive Filament. The cave fisher extends a sticky filament upto 60 feet, and the filament adheres to anything that touches it .A creature the filament adheres to is grapp led by the cave fisher(escape DC 13), and abi lity checks made to escape this grapplehave disadvantage. The filament can be attacked (AC l 5; 5 hitpoints ; immunity to poison and psychic damage) . A weaponthat fails to sever it becomes stuck to it, requiring an action anda successful DC 13 Strength check to pull free. Destroying thefilament deal s no damage to the cave fisher. The filament crum -bles away if the cave fi s her takes this bonu s action again .- · :::;:;s~ ...CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYI73CHAMPIONChampions are mighty warriors who have honedtheir fighting skills in wars or gladiatorial pits.To soldiers and other people who fight for a liv-ing, champions are as influential as nobles, andtheir presence is courted as a sign of statusamong rulers.A typical champion bears a coat of arms, heraldrythat is associated with the champion far and wide.You may create a coat of arms for a champion orroll on the Champion's Coats of Arms table to de-termine it.CHAMPION'S COATS OF ARMSdl2 Coat of Arms23456789101112Three lit candles on a purple fieldSea serpent coiled around a trident on a bluefieldHunting horn banded in gold on a gray fieldRaised fist grasping an anchor on a quarteredfield of blue and whiteTurtle with crenelated tower on its shell on awhite fieldDragon skull supported on either side by dragonwings on a red fieldYellow chicken foot on a black fieldLightning bolt splitting a galley in two on a bluefieldTwo crouching displacer beasts facing eachother on a yellow fieldKnotted brambles on a green fieldRed owl bear with a silver crown on a checkeredfield of black and whiteBlack anvil cracked down the middle on an or-ange field74 CHAPTER 2 J BESTIARYMedium Humanoid, Any Alignm entArmor Class 18 (plate)Hit Points 143 (22d8 + 44)Speed 30 ft .STR20 (+ 5)DEX15 (+ 2)CON14 (+2)Saving Throws Str +9, Con +6INT10 (+ 0)•WIS14 (+ 2)Skills Athletics + 9, Intim idation +5 , Perception +6Senses passi ve Perceptio n 16Languages an y one language (usuall y Common)CHA12 (+l)Challenge 9 (5 ,000 X P) Proficiency Bonus +4Indomitable (2/Day). The champion rerolls a failedsaving throw.ACTIONSMultiattack. The champion makes three Greatsword or Short-bow attacks.Greatsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft. , onetarget. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) slashing damage, plus 7 (2d6) slash-ing damage if the champion has more than half of its total hitpoints remaining.Shortbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, range 80/320 ft.,one target. Hit: 5 (ld6 + 2) piercing damage, plus 7 (2d6) pierc-ing damage if the champion has more than half of its total hitpoints remaining.BONUS ACTIONSSecond Wind (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest) . The cham -pion regains 20 hit points.CHITINEDedicated to Lolth, chitines aremultiarmed bipeds with arachnidqualities. Most live in colonies in theUnderdark and fight the enemies ofthe Demon Queen of Spiders . Longago, the cult of Lolth first subjectedelf prisoners to horrible rituals thattransformed them into creatureswith both elven and spider traits,which their creators dubbed chitines.The intention was to create servilewarriors dedicated first to the cultand then, only by association with it,to Lolth. The goddess found this ar-rangement unacceptable.As punishment, the Spider Queen twisted herworshipers' rituals. The process usually trans -formed subjects into the spindly creatures herdevotees expected, but occasionally, an elf changedinto a choldrith (appears in this book): an arachnidMonstrosity able to command and create morechitines on its own. These choldriths soon led thechitines to rebel and abandon their creators, found-ing free colonies elsewhere in the Underdark. Onoccasion, though, colonies can be found in remote,gloomy areas of the surface world, warring againstLolth's enemies.The cult of Lolth still creates chitines as the needarises. Outside the presence of a choldrith, chitinesmake good workers, and they can be useful if thecult finds an independent chitine colony and want toinfiltrate it. If the creation process yields a choldrith,though, the cult destroys the creature.As servants of Lolth, chitines love spiders. Theyrear spiders and similar arachnids, such as cavefishers (also in this book). Chitine colonies erectshrines to Lolth that serve as beacons, attractingspiders and other beings that serve her. Anywherechitines set up a colony quickly becomes a web-shrouded, gloomy, and treacherous place.Chitines resemble spiders, but they behave morelike social insects such as ants. They are dividedinto worker and warrior castes; choldriths, whenpresent, occupy the top levels of a colony's hierar-chy. Each chitine has a social position that comeswith duties related to that rank, and all are expectedto sacrifice themselves to protect the colony's chol-driths. Every chitine has spinnerets and slowlyproduces webbing that is used to build floors, walls,structures, objects, and traps that benefit the colony.A warrior might be responsible for crafting webarmor (which is as tough as hide or leather), whilea group of workers might be tasked to dig pit trapsand cover them with fragile webbing disguised withloose dirt to appear as a solid surface.CHITINESma ll Monstro sity, Typicall y Cha oti c EvilArmor Class 14 (h ide armor)Hit Points 18 (4d6 + 4)Speed 30 ft ., climb 30 ft.STR10 (+0)DEX14 (+ 2)CON12 (+l)Skills Athletics +4, Stealth +4INT10 (+0)WIS10 (+0)Senses darkvision 60 ft ., passive Perception l 0Languages UndercommonCHA7 (-2)Challenge 1/2 (100 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Fey Ancestry. Th e ch it in e has advantage on saving throwsagai nst being charmed, and magic can't put the ch itine to sleep.Su nlight Sensitivity. W hil e in su n lig ht, the chitine has disadvan -tage on attack rol ls, as we ll as on Wisdom (Perception) checksth at re ly on sig ht.Web Sense. W hil e in con tact with a web, the chitine knowsthe exact locatio n of any other creature in contact withthe same web.Web Walker. The chiti ne ignores movement restrictions causedby webb in g.ACTIONSMultiattack. The chitine makes three Dagger attacks .Dagger. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft. orrange 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (ld4 + 2) piercing damage.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIAR'I' 75CHOKERThe choker is a subterranean predator far moredangerous than its small size and spindly, rubberylimbs would suggest.Chokers have cartilage rather than a bony skel-eton. This flexible internal structure enables themto easily slip into narrow fissures and niches inthe walls of their cavern homes. They lurk inthese spots , silent and unseen , waiting for prey tohappen by.A choker's usual method for luring prey involvespositioning the body of its latest catch just outsideits hiding spot. Whenever it gets hungry, it tearsoff a few chunks of flesh to feed itself. In the mean -time, the corpse serves to entice other curiousfolk-explorers from the surface world, drow, duer -gar, or the choker's favorite prey, goblins- to comewithin reach.When a target presents itself, the choker's star-fish-shap ed hands dart out of its hiding spot, wraparound the victim's throat, and pin the unfortunatecreature against the cavern wall. Because its armsare so long, the choker can keep its body deep in-side the crevice where it hides, beyond the reach ofmost normal weapons.Choke rs tend to set th eir ambushes alone, ratherthan working in concert, but where one choker isfound , others are likely to be n ea rby. They commu-nicate through eerie, k ee ning howls that travel longdistan ces through caves and tunnels but are difficultto identify or locate in a typical ec ho-filled cavern.76 CHAPTER '2 I BESTIARYCHOKERSmall Ab erration , Typically Cha oti c EvilArmor Class 16 (natural armor)Hit Points 13 (3d6 + 3)Speed 30 ft .STR16 (+3)DEX14 (+ 2)Skills Stealth +6CON13 (+ l)INT4 (-3)WIS12 (+l)Senses darkvision 60 ft ., passive Perceptio n l lLanguages Deep SpeechCHA7 (-2)Challenge l (100 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Ab errant Quickne ss (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). Th echoker can take an extra act ion on its turn.Bo ne less. Th e choker ca n move t h ro ugh and occ u py a space asnarrow as 4 inches wide witho ut squeezing.Sp id er Climb. The choker can climb difficult surfaces, includ-ing upsi de down on ce ilings , witho ut needing to make anabi lity check.ACTIONSMulti at tack. The choke r makes two Tentacle attacks.Tentacl e. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 10 ft., onetarget. Hit: 5 (l d4 + 3) piercing damage. If the target is a Largeor smal ler creature, it is grappled (e sca pe DC 15). Unt il thisgrapple ends, the target is restrained , and the choker ca n't uset h is tentacle on another target. The choker has two tentacles. Ift h is att ack is a critical hit, the target also can't breathe or speakunti l the grapp le ends .CHOLDRITHMedium Monstrosity (Cleric), Typically Chaotic EvilArmor Class 15 (natural armor)Hit Points 66 (12d8 + 12)Speed 30 ft ., climb 30 ft .STR12 (+l)DEX16 (+3)CON12 (+l)INT11 (+0)WIS14 (+2)Skills Athletics +5, Religion +2, Stealth +5Senses darkvision 60 ft ., passive Perception 12Languages UndercommonCHA10 (+0)Challenge 3 (700 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Fey Ancestry. The choldrith has advantage on saving throwsagainst being charmed, and magic can't put the chol-drith to sleep.Spider Climb. The cho ldrith can climb difficult surfaces, in-cluding upside down on cei li ngs, without needing to make anabi lity check.Sunlight Sensitivity. Whi le in sunlight, the choldrith has dis-advantage on attack rolls, as wel l as on Wisdom (Perception)checks that rely on sight.Web Sense. Wh ile in contact with a web, the choldrith knowsthe exact location of any other creature in contact withthe same web.Web Walker. The choldrith ignores movement restrictionscaused by webbing.ACTIONSDagger. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft .or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (ld4 + 3) piercing damageplus 10 (3d6) poison damage.Spellcasting. The choldrith casts one of the follow ing spells, us-ing Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spe ll save DC 12):At wi ll: guidance, thaumaturgy1/day each: bane, hold personWeb (Recharge 5- 6). Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, range30/60 ft., one Large or smal ler creature. Hit: The target isrestrained by webbing. As an action, the restrained targetcan make a DC 11 Strength check, bursting the webb ing on asuccess. The webb ing can also be attacked and destroyed (AC10; 5 hit points; vu lnerability to fire damage; immunity to blud-geoning, poison, and psychic damage).BONUS ACTIONSSpectral Dagger (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). Thecholdrith conjures a floating, spectral dagger within 60 feet ofitself. The choldrith can make a melee spell attack (+4 to hit)against one creature within 5 feet of the dagger. On a hit, thetarget takes 6 (1 d8 + 2) force damage.The dagger lasts for l minute. As a bonus action on laterturns, the choldrith can move the dagger up to 20 feet and re•peat the attack against one creature within 5 feet of the dagger.CHOLDRITHCholdriths are monstrous spiderlike creatures orig-inally created to serve Lolth. They rule colonies ofchitines (in this book) and lead them into battle inLolth's war against her enemies.When devotees of Lolth created the first chitines,she watched as her followers used arcane magicand demonic powers and invoked her aid for thedivine spark needed to ensure the subjects' survival,expecting to see these new abominations dedicatedsolely to her, but the devotees performed no such rit-ual. As revenge for the devotees' betrayal, the SpiderQueen manipulated the creation rituals so that theysometimes created choldriths instead of chitines.At first, these devotees were unaware that thenew creatures, which they dubbed choldriths, weresigns of Lolth's wrath. Instead, they were pleased,because choldriths could lay eggs that birthed morechitines (and the rare choldrith) and could directthe chitines in their work. But the devotees soon re-alized their mistake-choldriths belonged to Lolth,body and soul. Choldriths whispered to the chitinesof their adoration of the Spider Queen and theirenmity against their creators, and led them in a suc-cessful revolt.Choldriths are born with a mystical connectionto Lolth, which gives them divine magic. They alsomake up the ruling caste of most chitine colonies.A colony can support numerous choldriths, whoserve as commanders, priests, and supervisors. Thecholdriths continually jockey for position, althoughthey rarely confront one another in a way that putsthe colony at risk. The colony is ruled by a sover-eign, who determines which colony members per-form which tasks, including whether a choldrith ispermitted to lay eggs. Sometimes a choldrith rulerreceives a vision from Lolth that inspires the entirecolony into some grand, often violent, action.nH A PTFll ? I RF.~TT A llY ,.,,.,CLOCKWORKSGnomes' tinkering with magic and mechanical de-vices has produced many failed Constructs but alsohas resulted in genuine advances, such as clock-works. The methods used to craft clockworks havebeen shared between gnome communities overmany generations.BRONZE SCOUTA bronze scout seldom emerges from underground.Its telescoping eyestalks observe foes at close rangewhile most of its segmented body remains buried.If detected, it sends electrical shocks through theground toward pursuers while it retreats.IRON COBRAAn iron cobra is exactly what its name implies: ametal snake with a poisonous bite. Gnomes loadthis clockwork with alchemical concoctions that canparalyze creatures and cloud the mind.OAKEN BOLTERNo ordinary ballista, an oaken bolter is a Constructcapable of striking at long distances. The bolts itlaunches can rend flesh, destroy armor, or drag en-emies toward traps or melee-oriented clockworks-and at shorter ranges, burst with explosive force.STONE DEFENDERThe thick plates of stone riveted onto a stone de-fender give it substantial protection. Its chief role isas a bodyguard.INDIVIDUAL DESIGNSGnome artisans prefer unique clockworks overperfectly functioning ones that copy too much fromother creations. A clockwork can be customized byadding one of the following enhancements and onepotential malfunction to its stat block. You can se-lect randomly or choose a pair of modifications thatfit the temperament of the clockwork's builder.CLOCKWORK ENHANCEMENTSdl0 EnhancementCamouflaged. The clockwork gains proficiency inStealth if it lacks that proficiency. While motionless,it is indistinguishable from a stopped machine.2 Sensors. The range of the clockwork's darkvisionincreases by 60 feet, and it gains proficiency in Per•ception if it lacks that proficiency.3 Fortified. The clockwork's AC increases by 2.4 Increased Speed. The clockwork's speed increasesby 10 feet.78 CHA P TER 2 I BESTIARYdl0 Enhancement5 Reinforced Construction. The clockwork has resis-tance to force, lightning, and thunder damage.6 Self-Repairing. If the clockwork starts its turn withfewer than half its hit points but at least l hit point,it regains 5 hit points. If it takes lightning damage,this ability doesn't function at the start of its nextturn.7 Sturdy Frame. The clockwork's hit point maximumincreases by an amount equal to its number of HitDice .8 Suction. The clockwork gains a climbing speed of30 feet.9 Vocal Resonator. The clockwork gains the ability tospeak rudimentary Common or Gnomish .10 Water Propulsion. The clockwork gains a swimmingspeed of 30 feet.CLOCKWORK MALFUNCTIONSd8 MalfunctionFaulty Sensors. Roll a d6 at the start of the clock-work's turn . If you roll a l, the clockwork is blindeduntil the end of its turn.2 Flawed Targeting. Roll a d6 at the start of the clock-work's turn. If you roll a l, the clockwork makesattack rolls with disadvantage until the end of itsturn .3 Ground Fault. The clockwork has vulnerability tolightning damage.4 Imprinting Loop. Roll a d6 at the start of the clock-work's turn. If you roll a l, the clockwork mistakesone creature it can see within 30 feet for its creator.The clockwork won't willingly harm that creaturefor l minute or until that creature attacks or dam-ages it .5 Limited Steering. The clockwork must move in astraight line. It can turn up to 90 degrees beforemoving and again at the midpoint of its movement.It can rotate freely if it doesn't use any of its speedson its turn.6 Overactive Sense of Self.Preservation. If the clock-work has half its hit points or fewer at the startof its turn in combat, roll a d6 . If you roll a l, itretreats from combat if possible. It otherwise keepsfighting.7 Overheats. Roll a d6 at the start of the clockwork'sturn. If you roll a l, the clockwork is incapacitateduntil the end of its turn .8 Rusty Gears. The clockwork has disadvantage oninitiative rolls, and its speed decreases by 10 feet ...CLOCKWORK BRONZE SCOUTMedium Construct, Unalign edArmor Class 13Hit Points 36 (8d8)Speed 30 ft ., burrow 30 ft .STR10 (+0)DEX16 (+ 3)CON11 (+ O)Skills Perception +6, Stealth +7Damage Immunities poisonINT3 (- 4)WIS14 (+ 2)CHAl (-5)Condition Immunities charmed , exhaustion , frightened ,paralyzed, petrified, poisonedSenses darkvision 60 ft ., passive Perception 16Languages understands one language of it s creator but can'tspeakChallenge l (200 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Earth Armor. The clockwork doesn't provoke opportunity at-tacks when it burrows.Magic Resistance. The clockwork has advantage on savingthrows against spells and other magical effects.Unusual Nature. The clockwork doesn't require air, food ,drink, or sleep.ACTIONSBite. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.Hit: 5 (ld4 + 3) piercing damage plus 3 (ld6) lightning damage.Lightning Flare (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). Eachcreature in contact with the ground within 15 feet of the clock-work must make a DC 13 De xterity saving throw, taking 14(4d6) lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much dam-age on a successful one.CLOCKWORK IRON COBRAMedium Constru ct, Unalign edArmor Class 13Hit Points 91 (14d8 + 28)Speed 30 ft .STR12 (+l)DEX CON16 (+ 3) 14 (+2)Skills Stealth +7Damage Immunities poi sonINT3 (- 4)WIS10 (+0)CHAl (-5)Condition Immunities charm ed, exhau stion , fri ghtened ,paral yzed , petrified, poiso nedSenses dark vision 60 ft. , passive Perception l 0Languages understands one language of its creator but can 'tspeakChallenge 4 (1 ,100 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Magic Resistance. The clockwork has advantage on savingthrows against spells and other magical effects .Unusual Nature. The clockwork doe·sn 't require air, food,drink, or sleep.ACTIONSBite. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft ., one target.Hit: 6 (ld6 + 3) piercing damage. If the target is a creature, itmust succeed on a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or sufferone random effect (roll a d6):1-2: Confusion. On its next turn, the target must use its actionto make one weapon attack against a random creature it cansee within 30 feet ofit, using whatever weapon it has in handand moving beforehand if necessary to get in range. If it'sholding no weapon, it makes an unarmed strike. If no crea-ture is visible within 30 feet , it takes th e Da sh action, movingtoward the nearest creature.3-4: Paralysis. The target is paral yz ed until th e end of it snext turn.5-6: Poison. The target takes 13 (3d8) poison damage.ICHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 79CLOCKWORK OAKEN BOLTERMedium Construct, UnalignedArmor Class 16 (natural armor)Hit Points 117 (18d8 + 36)Speed 30 ft .STR12 (+l)DEX18 (+4)CON15 (+2)Damage Immunities poisonINT3 (-4)WIS10 (+0)CHA1 (-5)Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion , frightened,paralyzed, petrified , poisonedSenses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10Languages understands one language of its creator but can 'tspeakChallenge 5 (1,800 XP) Proficiency Bonus +3Magic Resistance. The clockwork has advantage on savingthrows against spells and other magical effects .Unusual Nature. The clockwork doesn't require air, food,drink, or sleep.ACTIONSMultiattack. The clockwork makes two Lancing Bolt attacks orone Lancing Bolt attack and one Harpoon attack .Lancing Bolt. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach5 ft. or range 100/400 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (2dl0 + 4) pierc-ing damage.Harpoon. Ranged Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, range 50/200 ft .,one target. Hit: 9 (ldl0 + 4) piercing damage, and the targetis grappled (escape DC 12). Wh ile grappled in this way, a crea-ture's speed isn 't reduced, but it can move only in directionsthat bring it closer to the clockwork. A creature takes 5 (ldl0)slashing damage if it escapes from the grapple or if it tries andfails . The clockwork can grapple only one creature at a timewith its harpoon.Explosive Bolt (Recharge 5-6). The clockwork launches anexplosive charge at a point within 120 feet. Each creature in a20-foot-radius sphere centered on that point must make a DC15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 17 (5d6) fire damage on afailed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.BONUS ACTIONSReel In. The clockwork pulls the creature grappled by its Har-poon up to 20 feet closer.80 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYCLOCKWORK STONE DEFENDERMedium Construct, UnalignedArmor Class 16 (natural armor)Hit Points 105 (14d8 + 42)Speed 30 ft.STR19 (+4)DEX10 (+0)CON17 (+3)Damage Immunities poisonINT3 (-4)WIS10 (+0)CHA1 (-5)Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion , frightened ,paralyzed , petrified, poisonedSenses darkvision 60 ft ., passive Perception 10Languages understands one language of its creator but can'tspeakChallenge 4 (1,100 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Magic Resistance. The clockwork has advantage on savingthrows against spel ls and other magical effects.Unusual Nature. The clockwork doesn't require air, food,drink, or s le ep.ACTIONSSlam. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit , reach 5 ft. , one target.Hit: 17 (2d6 + 4) bludgeoning damage, and if the target is Largeor smaller, it is knocked prone.REACTIONSIntercept Attack. In response to another creature within 5 feetof it being hit by an attack roll , the clockwork g ive s that creaturea +5 bonus to its AC against that attack, potentially causing amiss. To use this abi lit y, the clockwork mu st be ab le to see thecreature and the attacker.CLOUD GIANT SMILING ONEHug e Giant, Typi cally Chaotic NeutralArmor Class 15 (natural armor)Hit Points 250 (20dl2 + 120)Speed 40 ft. , fl y 40 ft . (hover)STR26 (+8)DEX12 (+l)CON22 (+6)INT15 (+2)Sav i ng Throws Con +10 , Int +6, Cha +7WIS16 (+ 3)Skills Deception +11, Insight +7, Perception +11 ,Sleight of Hand +9Senses passive Perception 21Languages Common , GiantCHA17 (+3)Challenge 11 (7,200 XP) Proficiency Bonus +4Control Weather (8th-level Spell). The giant can cast the controlweather spell, requiring no material components and usingCharisma as the spellcasting ability.ACTIONSMultiattack. The giant makes two Slam attacks or two Teleki-netic Strike attacks.Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 10 ft ., one tar-get. Hit: 21 (3d8 + 8) bludgeoning damage plus 5 (ldl0) p sy-chic damage.Telekinetic Strike. Ranged Spell Attack: +7 to hit, range 240 ft. ,one target. Hit: 25 (4dl0 + 3) force damage.Change Shape. The giant magically transforms to look and feellike a Beast or a Humanoid it has seen or to return to its trueform. Any equipment the giant is wearing or carrying is ab-sorbed by the new form . Its statistics, other than its size, don'tchange. It reverts to its true form if it dies.Spellcasting. The giant casts one of the following spells, requir-ing no material components and using Charisma as the spell-casting ability (spell save DC 15):At will: detect magic.fog cloud, light , minor illusion3/day each: invisibility , silent image , suggestion, tongues1/day eac h: gaseous form, major imageBONUS ACTIONSCloud Step (Recharge 4-6). The giant teleports , along with anyequipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 60 feet to an unoccu-pied space it can see.ACLOUD GIANT SMILING ONESmiling ones are cloud giants who honor and em-ulate the craftiness and deceit of th e deity Memnorabove all else. They are tricksters supreme who usesleight of hand, deception, misdirection, and magicin their pursuit of wealth. They also possess a flairfor unpredictability and a wicked sense of humor.Smiling ones overstep all bounds of decorum withtheir behavior, doing and saying things that evenother knavish folk consider beneath their dignity.Smiling ones take their name from the strangetwo-faced masks they wear. The smiling half of theface often looks more like a smirk or a triumphantsneer than a pleasant grin. The frowning half rep-resents the displeasure smiling ones feel aboutcloud giants' place in the ordning-second to stormgiants. The masks serve as symbols of smiling ones'devotion and also concea l their wearers' true facialexpressions.CORPSE FLOWERLarge Plant , Typically Chaotic EvilArmor Class 12H it Po ints 127 (l5 dl0 + 45)Speed 20 ft ., climb 20 ft .STR14 (+2)DEX14 (+2)CON16 (+ 3) .IN T7 (-2)W IS15 (+ 2)Condition Immunities blinded , deafened , p oisonedSenses blinds ight 120 ft. (b li nd beyo nd thi s ra di us) ,passive Percep ti o n 12La nguages -CHA3 (-4 )Challenge 8 (3,90 0 XP) Proficiency Bonus +3Corpses. When first encountered, a corpse flower contains thecorpses of ld6 + 3 Hum ano ids . A corpse flower can hold theremai ns of up to nine Hum ano id s . These remains have totalcover against attacks and other effects outside the corpseflower. If the corpse flower dies, the corpses within it can bepulled free .Spider Climb. The corpse flower can climb difficult surfaces,includin g up s ide down on cei lin gs, without needing to make anability check .Stench of Death. Each creature that starts its turn within 10feet of the corp s e flower or one of its zombies must make82 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY•CORPSE FLOW E RA corpse flower can sprout atop the grave of an evilnecromancer or the remains of powerful Undeadcreatures. Unless it is uprooted and burned whileit is still a seedling, the corpse flower grows toenormous size over several weeks , th en te ars itselffree of th e earth and begins scavenging Humanoidcorpses from battlefields and graveyards. Using itsfibrous tentacles, it stuffs the remains into its bodyto sustain and repair itself. The plant has a malevo-lent bent and despises the living.With or without corpses nested in its body, acorpse flower exudes a stench of decay that canoverwhelm the senses of nearby creatur es, caus-ing them to become nauseated. The st e nch, whichserves as a defense me chanism, fades 2d4 days af-ter the corpse flower dies.a DC 14 Const itu tion saving throw, unless the creature is aConstruct or an Undead. On a failed save, the creature is poi-soned until the start of its next turn. On a successful save, thecreature is immune to the Stench of Death of all corpse flowersfor 24 hours .ACTIONSMultiattack. The corpse flower makes three Tentacle attacks.Tentacle. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit , reach 10 ft. , onetarget. Hit: 9 (2d6 + 2) bludgeoning damage plus 10 (3d6) poi-son damage.Harvest the Dead. The corpse flower swallows one unsecuredHumanoid corpse within 10 feet of it, along with any equip-ment the corpse is wearing or carrying.BONUS ACT I ONSDigest. The corpse flower digests one corpse in its body andinstantly regains ll (2dl0) hit points. Nothing of the digestedcorpse remains. Any equipment on the corpse is expel led fromthe corpse flower in its space.Reanimate. The corpse flower animates one corpse in its bod y,turning it into a zombie (see the Monster Manual). The zombieappears in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of the corpseflower and acts immediately after it in the initiative order . Thezomb ie acts as an ally of the corpse flower but isn't underit s control , and the flower's stench clings to it (see Stenchof Death).CRANIUM RATSMind flayers create cranium rats by bombardingrats with psionic energy. Cranium rats ar e some-what sma rter than ordinar y rats and behave assuc h. If enough cranium rats c ome toge th er to forma swa rm , they merge th e ir mind s into a single inte l-li ge nce with th e acc umul ated me mori es of all th eswarm's constitue nt s. Th e ra ts bec om e sma rt er as aresult, and retain th e ir heightened intelligence for aslong as th e sw arm per sis ts. Th e swa rm also a wak-ens latent psionic abiliti es implanted within eachcra nium ra t by its mind fl ayer cr ea tors, b es towingup on the swa rm psionic powers .A single c ranium rat u ses its na tur al telepa thy toco mmun icate hung er, fea r, a nd oth er b ase emotions.A swa rm of c ranium rats c ommun icating telepa th -ica lly "sp ea ks " as on e cr ea tur e, o ft en refer rin g toit se lf using th e collective pron o un s "we" a nd "us."Som e min d flay er coloni es u se cra nium rats asspi es . Th e ra ts invade c ommuniti es a nd act as eyesand ea rs fo r th e colony's elder br ain (appe ar s in thisbook), t ra nsmitting th eir th oug ht s when they s warmand are within ra ng e of th e elder brain's tele pathy.CRANIUM RATTiny Aberration, UnalignedArmor Class 12Hit Points 2 (ld4)Speed 30 ft.STR2 (-4)DEX14 (+2)CON10 (+O)INT4 (-3)WIS11 (+O)Senses darkvision 30 ft ., passive Perception 10Languages telepathy 30 ft.CHA8 (-1)Challenge O (10 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Te lepathic Sh ro ud. The cranium rat is immune to any effectthat wou ld sense its emot ions or read its thoughts, as wel l asto all divination spe ll s.ACTIONSBite. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.Hit : 1 piercing damage.BONUS ACTIONSIlluminat io n. The cranium rat sheds dim light from its exposedbrain in a 5-foot rad ius or extinguishes the light.SWARM OF CRANIUM RATSMedium Swarm of Tiny Aberrations , Typically Lawful EvilArmor Class 12Hit Points 76 (17d8)Speed 30 ft.STR9 (- 1)DEX14 (+ 2)CON10 (+O)INT15 (+ 2)WIS11 (+O)Damage Resistances bludgeoning, piercing, slashingCondition Immunities charmed, frightened , grappled ,paralyzed, petrified , prone, restrained , stunnedSenses darkvision 30 ft ., passive Perception 10Languages telepathy 30 ft .CHA14 (+2)Challenge 5 (1,800 XP) Proficiency Bonus +3Swarm. The swarm can occupy another creature's space andv ice versa , and the swarm can move through any opening largeenough for a Tiny rat. T he swarm can't regain hit points or gaintemporary hit po ints.Telepathic Shr oud. The swarm is immune to any effect thatwould sense its emotions or read its thoughts, as well as to alldivinat ion spel ls.ACTIONSBites. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach Oft ., one target inthe swarm 's space. Hit: 14 (4d6) piercing damage , or 7 (2d6)piercing damage if the swarm has half of its hit points or fewer,plus 22 (5d8) psychic damage.Spellcasting (Psi o nic s). As long as it has more than half of itshit po ints remain ing, the swarm casts one of the fo llowingspe lls, requiring no spell components and using Inte lligence asthe spellcasting abi lity (spell save DC 13):At wil l: command, comprehend languages, detect thoughts1/day each: confusion, dominate monsterBONUS ACTIONSIllumination . The swarm sheds dim light from its brains in a5-foot radius, increases the il lumination to bright li ght in a 5- to20-foot radius (and dim light for an additional number of feetequal to the chosen radius), or extinguishes the light.ICHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 83DARKLINGSAncient legends speak of a seelie fey who betrayedthe Summer Queen. In the Summer Queens ' wrath,she cursed every member of his house. The seeliefey's true name has been stricken from history, butthe stories call him Dubh Catha ("Dark Crow" inCommon), and other Fey refer to the house's descen-dants as dubh sith-"darklings." Darklings dwell insecluded caverns and chambers beneath the townsof other species. From such enclaves, they quietlyply their trade as thieves and assassins.DARKLINGThe Summer Queen 's curse causes a darkling 'sbody to absorb light, which wizens the creature,much like the effect of rapid aging. For this reason,darklings cover their entire bodies with clothingwhen exposure to light is a risk. The light darklingsabsorb over the course of their lives explodes out-ward when they die, incinerating the creatures andmuch of their possessions.DARKLING ELDERA wise and respected darkling can undergo a ritualto become an elder. Other elders mark the suppli-cant with glowing tattoos, channeling away some ofthe darkling's absorbed light. If the ritual succeeds,the darkling grows into a taller, elf-like form. Thedarkling perishes if the ritual fails.DARKLINGSmall Fey, Typically Chaotic NeutralArmor Class 14 (leather armor)Hit Points 13 (3d6 + 3)Speed 30 ft .STR9 (-1)DEX16 (+3)CON12 (+l)INT10 (+0)WIS12 (+l)CHA10 (+0)Skills Acrobatics +5, Deception +2, Perception +5, Stealth +7Senses blindsight 30 ft., darkvision 120 ft ., passive Perception 15Languages Elvish, SylvanChallenge 1/2 (100 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Death Flash. When the darkling dies, nonmagical light flashesout from it in a 10 -foot radius as its body and possessions ,other than metal or magic objects, burn to ash. Any creature inthat area must succeed on a DC 10 Constitution saving throwor be blinded until the end of its next turn .Light Sensitivity. While in bright light, the darkling has disad-vantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception)checks that rely on sight.ACTIONSDagger. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft.or range 20/60 ft. , one target. Hit: 5 (ld4 + 3) piercing damageplus 7 (2d6) necrotic damage .84 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYDARKLING ELDERMedium Fey, Typically Chaotic NeutralArmor Class 15 (studded leather armor)Hit Points 27 (5d8 + 5)Speed 30 ft.STR13 (+l)DEX17 (+3)CON12 (+l)INT10 (+0)WIS14 (+2)CHA13 (+l)Skills Acrobatics +5, Deception +3, Perception +6, Stealth +7Senses blindsight 30 ft., darkvision 120 ft. , passive Perception 16Languages Elvish , SylvanChallenge 2 (450 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Death Burn. When the darkling elder dies , magical light flashesout from it in a 10-foot radius as its body and possessions ,other than metal or magic objects, burn to ash . Any creaturein that area must make a DC 11 Constitution saving throw. Ona failed save, the creature takes 7 (2d6) radiant damage and isblinded until the end of its next turn. On a successful save , thecreature takes half as much damage and isn't blinded.ACTIONSMultiattack. The darkling elder makes two Scimitar attacks .Scimitar. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.Hit: 6 (1 d6 + 3) slashing damage plus 7 (2d6) necrotic damage.Darkness (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). The darklingelder casts darkness, requiring no spel l components and usingWisdom as the spel lcasting ab ilit y.DEATH KrssA de ath kiss is a lesser beholder that cancome into being when a tru e beholder ha sa vivid nightmare about losing blood. Itscoloration and shape resembl e thos e of thebeholder th at dreamed it into existence,but its hu e is more mut ed, and inst ead of magicaleye rays, it ha s ten long tentacles, each ending in amouth full of teeth. It can sp e ak through any of itstentacle-maws in a high-pitched, nasal voi ce .Death kis se s fear tru e beholde rs , which can easilykill or subdu e them. La cking th e egotis m of th eirstronger kin, a death kiss usually submits to therule of its cr eator or any oth er beholder it encoun-te rs , but it tries to e scap e as soon as th e beholder ispreoccupied.A de ath kiss consumes ingested blood, which italso use s to heal and gene rat e electrical energyinside its bod y. Terrified of dying from star vation,it obsessive ly drains even little c reatur es su ch asrats, leaving behind a trail of bloodle ss corps es.When und erground, it use s its tentacles as feelers ,prodding and e xamining th e env ironm e nt in all di-rections. Above ground , it us ually keeps its tentaclesretracted wh en on the hunt, th en lash es out withthem to catch opponents off guard.A death kiss lacks the combat fin e sse and intel-ligence of a tru e beholder. In most ca se s, it simplylatches on to its prey with on e or mor e of its tenta-cl es and drain s blood until th e pr ey colla ps es. If it'sin a superior position and its fo e pos es no thr eat, itmight toy with its food, drawing out its pr ey's de ath .A d ea th ki ss pr efe rs to hunt alone. If it m ee tsanother of its kind , it might fight, fl ee, or te am up,depe ndin g on its health and pride.-c: - -:::::::::DEATH KISSLarge Aberration (Beholder) , Typically Neutral EvilArmor Class 15 (natural armor)Hit Points 142 (15dl0 + 60)Speed Oft ., fly 30 ft . (hover)STR18 (+4)DEX14 (+ 2)CON18 (+4)Saving Throws Con +8, Wis +5Skills Perception +5Damage Immunities lightningCondition Immunities proneINT10 (+0)WIS12 (+l)Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 15Languages Deep Speech, UndercommonCHA10 (+0)Challenge 10 (5,900 XP) Proficiency Bonus +4Lightning Blood. A creature within 5 feet of the death kiss takes5 (ldl0) lightning damage whenever it hits the death kiss witha melee attack that deals piercing or slashing damage .ACTIONSMultiattack. The death kiss makes three Tentacle attacks. Upto three of these attacks can be replaced by Blood Drain-onereplacement per tentacle grappling a creature .Tentacle. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 20 ft. , one tar-get. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) piercing damage, and the target is grap-pled (escape DC 14) ifit is a Huge or smaller creature . Untilthis grapple ends , the target is restrained , and the death kisscan 't use the same tentacle on another target. The death kisshas ten tentacles .Blood Drain. One creature gr appled by a tentacle of the deathkiss must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw . On a failedsave, the target takes 22 (4dl0) lightning damage , and thedeath kiss regains half as man y hit po i nts .a"'CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 85DEATHLOCKSThe forging of a pact between a warlock and a pa-tron is no minor occasion- at least not for the war-lock. The consequences of breaking that pact can bedire and, in some cases, lethal. A warlock who failsto live up to a bargain with an evil patron runs therisk of rising from the dead as a deathlock, a foulUndead driven to serve its otherworldly patron.An powerful necromancer might also discover thewicked methods of creating a deathlock and thensubjugate it, acting as the deathlock's patron.DEATHLOCKAn overpowering urge to serve consumes the mindof a newly awakened deathlock. Any goals and am-bitions it had in life that don't please its patron fallaway as its master's desires become the purposethat drives it. The deathlock immediately resumeswork on its patron's behalf.Whatever the goal, it always reflects the patron'sinterests , ranging from small-scale concerns tomatters of cosmic scope. A deathlock in the thrall ofa Fiend might work to destroy a specific temple ded-icated to a good god, while one that serves a GreatOld One might hunt for the materials needed to callforth a horrifying entity into the world. To accom-plish a difficult goal, the deathlock might be forcedto serv e another powerful creature or might need togather servants of its own.86 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY•D EATHL O CK MASTERMINDThough deathlocks exist to serve their patrons , theyretain some freedom when it comes to devisingtactics and carrying out plans. Powerful deathlocksrecruit lesser creatures to help them carry out theirmissions, becoming the masterminds behind vastconspiracies and intrigues that culminate in the ac-complishment of great acts of evil.D EATHL O CK WIGHTDeprived of much of its magic as a special punish-ment, a deathlock wight lingers between the war-lock it was and the wretched existence of a wight.DEATHLOCKMedium Undead (Warlock), Typically Neutral EvilArmor Class 12 (15 with mage armor)Hit Points 36 (8 d 8)Speed 30 ft .STR11 (+ 0)DEX15 (+2)CON10 (+ 0)Saving Th rows Int +4, Cha +5Skills Arca na + 4, History +4INT14 (+2)WIS12 (+ l )CHA16 (+ 3)Damage Res istances necrotic; bludgeoning, piercing, andslashing from nonmagical attacks that aren 't silveredDamage Immu ni ti es poisonCond ition Im m un iti es exhaustion , poisonedSenses darkvis ion 60 ft ., passive Perce ption 11Languages the languages it knew in lifeChallenge 4 (1,100 XP) Proficiency Bonu s +2Turn Resistance. The deathlock has advantage on saving throwsagainst any effect that turns Undead.Unusual Nature. The deathlock doesn't require air, food,drink, or sleep.ACT I O NSMultiattack. The deathlock makes two Deathly Claw or GraveBolt attacks .Deathly Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit , reach 5 ft. , onetarget. Hit: 9 (2d6 + 2) necrotic damage .Grave Bolt. Ranged Spell Attack: +5 to hit, range 120 ft. , onetarget. Hit : 14 (2dl0 + 3) necrotic damage .Spellcasting. The death lock casts one of the following spells ,using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 13) :At will : detect magic, disguise self mage armor, mage hand1/day each: disp el magic, hunger of Hadar , invisibility,spider climbDEATHLOCK MASTERMINDMe dium Undead (Warlock), Typi ca lly Neutral EvilArmor Class 13 (16 with mage armor)Hit Points 11 0 (20d8 + 20)Speed 30 ft .STR11 (+0)DEX16 (+3)CON12 (+ l )Saving Throws Int +5, Cha +6INT15 (+ 2)Skills Arcana +5 , History +5, Perception +4WIS12 (+l)CHA17 (+3)Damage Resistances necrotic; bludgeoning, piercing, andslashing from nonmagical attacks that aren't silveredDamage Immunities poisonCondition Immunities exhaustion , poi sonedSenses darkvision 120 ft ., pa s si ve Perceptio n 14Languages the languages it kne w in lifeChallenge 8 (3 ,900 XP) Proficiency Bonus +3Devil's Sight. Magical darkness doesn 't impede the death lock 'sdarkvision.Turn Resistance. The death lock has advantage on saving throwsagainst any effect that turns Undead .Unusual Nature. The death lock doesn't require air, food ,drink, or sleep.ACTIONSMultiattack. The death lock makes two Deathly Claw or GraveBolt attacks.Deathly Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., onetarget. Hit: 13 (3d6 + 3 necrotic damage).Grave Bolt. Ranged Spell Attack: +6 to hit, range 120 ft., onetarget. Hit: 13 (3d8) necrotic damage. If the target is Large orsmaller, it must succeed on a DC 16 Strength saving throw orbecome restrained as shadowy tendrils wrap around it for lminute . A restrained target can use its action to repeat the sav-ing throw, ending the effect on itself on a success.Spellcasting. The death lock casts one of the following spells,using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (s pell save DC 14) :At will: detect magic, disguise se lf, mage armor, minor illusion1/ day each: darkn ess, dim ension door, dispel magic,jly, invisibilityDEATHLOCK WIGHTMedium Und ead (Warlock), Typi call y Neutral EvilArmor Class 12 (15 with mage armor)Hit Points 37 (5d8 + 15)Speed 30 ft.STR11 (+O)DEX14 (+2)Saving Throws Wis +4CON16 (+3)Skills Arcana +3 , Perception +4INT12 (+ l )WIS14 (+2)CHA16 (+3)Damage Resistances necrotic; bludgeoning, piercing, andslashing from nonmagical attacksDamage Immunities poisonCondition Immunities ex haust ion, poisonedSenses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 14Languages the langu ages it knew in lifeChallenge 3 (700 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the deathlock has dis-advantage on attack rolls , as well as on Wisdom (Perception)checks that rely on sight.Unusual Nature. The deathlock doesn't require air, food,drink, or sleep.ACTIONSMultiattack. The death lock makes two Life Drain or GraveBolt attacks.Life Drain. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft ., onecreature. Hit: 6 (ld8 + 2) necrotic damage. The target mustsucceed on a DC 13 Constitution saving throw, or its hit pointmaximum is reduced by an amount equal to the damage taken.This reduction lasts until the target finishes a long rest. Thetarget dies if its hit point maximum is reduced to 0.A Humanoid slain by this attack rises 24 hours later as a zom -bie (see the Monster Manual) under the death lock 's control,unless the Humanoid is restored to life or its body is destro ye d.The death lock can have no more than twelve zombies under itscontrol at one time.Grave Bolt. Ranged Spell Attack: +5 to hit, range 60 ft. , one tar-get. Hit : 12 (2d8 + 3) necrotic damage.Spellcasting. The deathlock casts one of th e following spells ,using Charisma as the spellcasting a bility (spell save DC 13):At will: detect magic, di sg ui se self, mage armorl /day each: fear, hold personCHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 87DEEP SCIONDEEP Sc 10N 1NliYBRIO FORMDeep scions bega n life as peop le who we re sto lenfrom shore or saved from sinking ships an d offereda terrible bargai n by an undersea power: s urr en der,body and sou l, or drown. Those who su bmit are sub-jected to an anc ient ritua l widespread a m ong evilaq uatic creat ures. Its methods are pa inful a nd theresult never certai n , but wh en it works, the m ag ictransforms an air -breathing pe rson into a sh ape -shifter that can take on an aquatic form .A deep scion em erges from the depths in se rviceto their underwa t er master, which is likely a kra k enor some other ancient be i ng of the deep. W hilewearing the min d and body of the person they oncewere as a sort of mask, the creat u re is bent on fu l-filling their master's desires. Sometimes a deepscion returns to the ir fo r mer home - u nexpec tedlyfo und alive when a ll hope was lost. At oth er timesthe deep scion takes on a new identity. In any case,it is the deep scion's duty to infiltrate the air -br eat h-ing world and report back to their master. Whenset to this task, a deep scion worms their way intothe life of an uns u spect ing e nemy as a new friend , alover, the perfect candidate for a job , or some ot h errole that e nables the min ion to carry out the ir mas -ter's commands.88 CHAPTER 2 J BESTIARYThe training to which a deep scion is subj ectedrids it of empa thy fo r th ose they spy on. Thou gh adeep scion mig ht behave as though infatuated, lau ghat the joke of a friend, or appear incensed at someinjustice, each of t hese acts is artificial to the deepscion , a means to an end. The creature be li eves thatth eir true form is the shape they take when theyreturn to the sea they th i nk of as home. Ironica lly,however, a deep scion th at is killed when in theirpiscine form is stripped of the magic th at enab ledthem to transform , leaving behind the corpse of theperson the deep scion once was.DEEP SCIONMed iu m Monst ro sity , Typi call y Cha oti c £~iiArmor Class 11Hit Points 67 (9d8 + 27)Speed 30 ft . (20 ft . a nd swim 40 ft . in hybrid fo rm)STR18 (+4)DEX13 (+ l)CON16 (+3 )Saving Throws Wis +3, Ch a +4INT10 (+ 0)WIS12 (+ l )CHA14 (+2)Skills Dece pti o n +6, Ins ight +3, Sleig ht of Ha nd +3, Stealth +3Senses d ar kv isio n 120 ft., p ass ive Pe rception 11Languages Aqu a n , Co mm o n , t hieves ' ca ntChallenge 3 (700 X P) Proficiency Bonus +2Amphibious (Hybrid Form Only). Th e d eep scion can br ea th eair and wate r.ACTIONSMultiattack. T he d eep scio n makes two Battleaxe attacks, or itmakes o ne Bit e attack and two Claw attacks.Battleaxe. Me lee We ap on Attack: +6 to h it , r eac h 5 ft., o ne t ar-get . Hit: 8 ( ld 8 + 4) s las hing d a m ag e , or 9 ( ldl0 + 4) slas hin gd am age if u se d wi th two hand s .Bite (Hybr id Form Only). Melee We ap on Attack: +6 to hit , r eac h5 ft ., o ne crea t ure. Hit: 6 ( ld 4 + 4) pi e rc in g d am age.Claw (Hybrid Form Only). Me lee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit ,reac h 5 ft ., o ne t a rget. Hi t: 7 ( ld 6 + 4) s lash ing d a m ag e .Psychic Screech (Hybr id Form Only; Recharges after a Shortor Long Rest) . Th e d ee p scio n em its a te rrible screa m aud ib lewit hin 3 00 f eet. Cr eat ur es within 30 feet oft he deep sc io n mu sts u ccee d o n a DC 13 Wis do m savi ng throw o r be s tunn ed unt ilth e e nd of th e d ee p s ci o n's next tu rn.In wate r, th e psychic s cr eec h a lso te le p at hi ca ll y tr a ns mit sth e d ee p sc io n's memori es of th e las t 24 ho u rs to it s m a st e r,r ega rdl ess of dist a nce, so lo ng as it and its m as ter are in th esa m e bod y of wa ter .BONUS ACT I ONSChange Shape. Th e d ee p sc io n tra n sfor m s into a hybr id fo rm( hum ano id-pi sc ine) o r ba ck in to it s t rue fo rm , w hi c h is hu -m a n like. It s st at isti cs, ot he r t han its spee d , are the sa m e ineac h fo rm. An y e qu ipm e nt it is wea ring o r car ry in g is n't tr a ns-for m ed. Th e de e p scion reve rt s to it s tru e fo rm if it di es.DEMO GORGONPrince of Demons, the Sibilant Beast , and Masterof the Spiraling Depths, Demogorgon is the embod-im e nt of chaos, confusion, and destruction , seekingto corrupt all that is good and undermine order inth e multiverse, to see everything dragged howlinginto the infinite depths of the Abyss.The demon lord is a meld of different forms. Hehas a saurian lower body and clawed, webbed feet;suckered tentacles sprout from the shoulders of hisgreat apelike torso, which is surmounted by two hid-eous simian heads named Aameul and Hathradiah.Their gaze brings bewilderment and confusion toany who confront them.Similarly, the spiraling Y sign of Demogorgon'scult drives those who contemplate it for too long todelirium. As a result, all followers of the Prince ofDemons break with reality sooner or later.DEMOGORGON'S LAIRDemogorgon makes his lair in a palace calledAbysm , found on a layer of the Abyss known as t heGaping Maw. Demogorgon's lair is a place of confu-sion and duality; the portion of the palace that liesabove water takes the fo r m of two se rp entine tow-er s, each crowned by a skull-shaped m inare t. Th ere,Demogorgon's he ad s contemplate th e mysteries ofthe arcane while arguing about how be st to oblite r-ate their rivals. Th e bulk of this pa lac e exte nds d ee pund erwater, in chill a nd da rken ed ca verns.LAIR ACTIONSOn initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Demo-gorgon can take one of the following lair actions; hecan't take the same lair action two rounds in a row :Darkness. Demogorgon casts the darkness spellfour times , targeting different areas with the spell.Demogorgon doesn 't need to concentrate on thespells , which end on initiative count 20 of thenext round.Illusory Duplicate. Demogorgon creates an illu-sory duplicate of himself, which app e ars in hisspace and lasts until initiative count 20 of the nextround. On his turn, Demogorgon can move theillusory duplicate a distance equal to his walk-ing sp ee d (no ac tion requi re d). Th e firs t time acr ea tur e or a n obj ect int erac ts physica lly with De-mogorgon (for exa mple, by hitting him with an a t-tac k) , there is a 50 percent cha nce that the illusoryduplicate is affected, not Demogorgon , in whichca se the illusion disapp ea rs.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 89REGIONAL EFFECTSThe region containing Demogorgon's lair is warpedby his magic, creating one or more of the follow-ing effects:Beguiling Realm. Within 6 miles of the lair, allCharisma (Persuasion) and Charisma (Perfor-mance) checks have disadvantage, and all Cha-risma (Deception) and Charisma (Intimidation)checks have advantage.Frenzied Animals. Beasts within 1 mile of thelair become frenzied and violent-even creaturesthat are normally docile. Within that area, anyability check involving Animal Handling hasdisadvantage.Venomous Beasts . The area within 6 miles ofthe lair becomes overpopulated with poisonoussnakes and other venomous Beasts.If Demogorgon dies, these effects fade over thecourse of ldlO days.•CULTISTS OF DEMOGORGONDemogorgon's followers are typically lone killersdriven by the whispering voice of their master.His most blessed followers gain the Two Minds ofChaos trait.Two Minds of Chaos. This creature has advantage on all Intelli-gence, Wisdom , and Charisma saving throws .I - c:::: 58& ¥ 54 ::::, 5½& 5-!55 s;; e& ::s c.,., -s:s; St ±ti-#SiDEMOGORGONHuge Fi end (Demon), Chaotic E~ifArmor Class 22 (natural armor)Hit Points 464 (32dl2 + 256)Speed 50 ft. , swim 50 ft.STR29 (+9)DEX14 (+2)CON26 (+8)INT20 (+5)WIS17 (+3)Saving Throws De x+ 10, Con +16, Wis+ 11, Cha +15Skills Insight +1 1, Perception + 19Damage Resistances cold, fire , lightningCHA25 (+7)Damage Immunities poison; bludgeoning, piercing, andslashing that is n onmagicalCondition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, frightened,po isonedSenses truesight 120 ft., pass ive Perception 29Languages all , telepathy 120 ft :Challenge 26 (90,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +8Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Demog orgon fails a sav ingthrow, he can choose to succeed instead .Magic Resistance. Demogorgon has advantage on savingthrows against spells and other magical effects.Two Heads. Demogorgon has advantage on saving throwsagainst being blinded, deafened , stun n ed, or knockedunconscious.ACTIONSMultiattack. Demogorgon makes two Tentacle attacks. He canreplace one attack with a use of Gaze .Tentacle. Melee Weapon Attack: + 17 to hit, reach 10 ft., one tar-get. Hit: 28 (3dl 2 + 9) force damage . If the target is a creature,it must succeed on a DC 23 Constitution saving throw , or its hitpoint maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the damage90 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYtaken . Thi s reduction lasts until the target fini s he s a lon g rest .The target dies if its hit point maximum is reduced to 0.Gaze. Demogorgon turns his magical gaze toward one creaturehe can see within 120 feet of him. The target must succeed ona DC 23 Wisdom saving throw or suffer one of the followingeffects (choose one or roll a d6):1-2: Beguiling Gaze. The target is stunned until the start ofDemogorgon 's next turn or until Demogorgon is no longerwithin line of sight.3-4: Confusing Gaze. The target suffers the effect of the confu-sion spell without making a saving throw . The effect lasts un-til the start of Demogorgon's next turn. Demogorgon doesn'tneed to concentrate on the spell.5-6: Hypnotic Gaze. The target is charmed by Demogorgonuntil the start of Demogorgon 's next turn. Demogorgonchooses how the charmed target uses its action , reaction,and movement.Spe/lcasting. Demogorgon casts one of the following spells,requiring no material components and using Charisma as thespellcasting ability (spell save DC 23):At will : detect magic, major image3/day each : dispel magic,fear, telekinesis1/day each:feeb/emind, project imageLEGENDARY ACTIONSDemogorgon can take 2 legendar y actions , choosing fromthe options below. Only one legendary action option can beused at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn .Demogorgon regains spent legendary actions at the startof his turn.Gaze. Demogorgon uses Gaze and must use either BeguilingGaze or Confusing Gaze.Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: + 17 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target.Hit : 20 (2dl0 + 9) bludgeoning damage plus 11 (2dl0) ne -crotic damage.Cast a Spell (Costs 2 Actions). Demogorgon uses Spellcasting .DERRODerro slink through the subterraneanrealms, seeking places that are safefrom the perils of the Underdark.Equal parts fearful and vicious, bandsof these dwarf-kin prey on thoseweaker than themselves, while givingsimpering obeisance to any creaturesthey deem more powerful. A lone derromay seem pitiable, but a cackling, spit-ting, growling, howling horde of themis horrifying to behold.Fractious in groups and individu-ally weak, derro would have died outlong ago but for two elements of theircharacter. They are cautious and distrustful, whichserves them well as they navigate the dangers ofthe Underdark and its societies. They also have astronger-than-normal tendency to develop sorcerouspower. Individuals who do so usually serve as lead-ers and are known as savants.Grandiose fantasies and rampant fanaticism haveobscured derro 's true origin, even among them-selves. Most dwarves don't recognize derro as kin,but the legends that derro tell about their people andthe story that duergar believe share a grain of truth.According to the histories of some duergar, derroare descended from a dwarven community thatwas left behind when the others escaped the ruleof mind flayers. These remnants were so distortedby the mind flayers' psionic power that the dwarvesbecame Aberrations.Derro tell their own stories of flight and survivalin the Underdark, in which mind flayers aren't al-ways the enemy. They tell of two brothers, the godsDiirinka and Diinkarazan, and of how Diirinka clev-erly betrayed his sibling so that he could steal mag-ical power from the evil they escaped. The dangerthe brothers are said to face in this legend varies,depending on whatever foe the savants want to leadtheir people against, yet the essence of the storyremains the same: a lesson of survival at any priceand an example of how deceitfulness and crueltycan be virtues.DERROSmall Ab erra ti on, Typicall y Chaoti c Evi lArmor Class 13 (leather armor)Hit Points 13 (3d6 + 3)Speed 30 ft.STR10 (+ O)DEX14 (+2)Skills Stealth +4CON12 (+l)INT11 (+0)WIS5 (- 3)Senses darkvision 120 ft. , passive Perception 7Languages Dwarv ish , Und ercommonCHA9 (- 1)Challenge 1/4 (S O XP ) Proficiency Bonus +2Magic Resistance. The derro has advantage on saving throwsagainst spells and other magical effects .Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the derro has disadvan-tage on attack rol ls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception) checksthat rely on sight.ACTIONSHo oked Spear. Melee Weapon Attack: +2 to hit, reach 5 ft.,one target. Hit: 3 (ld6) piercing damage. If the target is Me-dium or smaller, the derro can choose to deal no damage andknock it prone.Light Crossbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, range 80/320ft. , one target. Hit: 6 (1 d8 + 2) piercing damage.ICHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 9192 CHA PT ER 2 \ BESTIARYDERRO SAVANTSmall Abe rrat ion (S orcere r), Typ ica ll y Cha otic EvilArmor Class 13 (leath er armor)Hit Po i nts 36 (8d6 + 8)Speed 30 ft.STR9 (-1)DEX14 (+2)Skills Stea lth +4CON12 (+ l )INTll (+0)WIS5 (- 3)Senses darkvis ion 120 ft ., passive Perception 7Languages Dwarvish , Unde rcommonCHA14 (+ 2)Chall e nge 3 (70 0 XP) Pr oficiency Bon us +2Magic Resistance. The derro has advantage on saving throwsaga inst spells and other magical effects.Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the derro has disadvan-tage on attack rolls, as we ll as on Wisdom (Perception) checksthat rely on sight.ACTIONSQuarterstaff. Melee Weapon Attack:+ l to hit, reach 5 ft., oneta rget. Hit: 2 (ld6 - l) bludgeoning damage .Chromatic Beam. The derro launches a brilliant beam of mag-ic al energy in a 5-foot-wide line that is 60 feet long. Each crea-ture in the line must make a DC 12 Dexterity saving throw, tak-ing 21 (6d6) radiant damage on a failed save, or half as muchdamage on a successful one.Spellcasting. Th e derro casts one of the fol lowing spe ll s, usingCharisma as the spe ll casting ab ility (spe ll save DC 12) :At will: mage hand, message, prestidigitationl /day each: invisibility, sleep, spider climbDEVOUREROf all the abominations unleashed by Orcus (ap-pears in this book), devourers are among the mostfeared. These tall, mummy-like Undead wander theplanes, consuming souls and spreading Orcus'screed of replacing all life with everlasting death.A lesser demon that proves itself to Orcus mightbe granted the privilege of becoming a devourer.The Prince of Undeath transforms such a demoninto an 8-foot-tall, desiccated biped with a hol-lowed-out ribcage, then fills th e new creature witha hunger for souls. Orcus grants each new devourerthe essence of a less fortunate demon to power thedevourer's first foray into the planes. Most devour-e rs remain in the Abyss or on the Astral or EtherealDEVOURERLarg e Un dead , Typi cally Chao tic EvilArmor Class 16 (natu ral armor)Hit Points 189 (l 8dl0 + 90)Speed 30 ft .STR20 (+ 5)DEX12 (+l)CON20 (+5)INT13 (+l)Damage Resistances cold , fire , lightnin gDamage Immunities po isonCondition Immunities poisonedWIS10 (+ 0)Senses dark visi on 120 ft ., pass ive Pe rception l 0Languages Ab ys s al , te le pathy 120 ft .CHA16 (+3)Challenge 13 (10 ,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +5Unusual Nature. A devourer doesn 't require air, drink, or s le ep.ACTIONSMultiattack. The devourer makes two Claw attacks and can useeither Im prison Sou l or Soul Rend, if ava il ab le.Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., onetarget. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) s lash in g damage plus 21 (6d6)necrotic damage.Imprison Soul. The devourer chooses a living Humanoid w ith0 hit po ints that it can see within 30 feet of it . That creature isteleported inside the devourer's ribcage and imprisoned there.While imprisoned in this wa y, the creature is restrained and hasdisadvantage on death saving throws . If the creature dies whileimprisoned, the devourer regains 25 hit points and immediatelyrecharges Sou l Rend. Additionally, at the start of its next turn,the devourer regurgitates the slain creature as a bonus action,and the creature becomes an Undead . If the victim had 2 orfewer Hit Dice, it becomes a zombie. lfit had 3 to 5 Hit Dice,it becomes a ghoul. Otherwise, it becomes a wight . (All threeappear in the Monster Manual.) A devourer can imprison onlyone creature at a time.Soul Rend (Recharge 6). The devourer creates a vortex oflife -draining energy in a 20-foot radius centered on itse lf. Eachcreature in that area must make a DC 18 Constitution sav in gthrow, taking 44 (8dl0) necrotic damage on a failed save, orha lf as much damage on a successfu l one.Plane , pursuing Orcus 's sch e mes and interests inthose realms. When Orcus sends devoure rs to theMaterial Plane , he often sets them on a mission tocreate , control, and lead a plague of Undea d. Skel-etons , zombies, ghouls, ghasts, and shadows (all ofwhich appear in the Monster Manual) ar e particu -larly attracted to the presence of a devourer.Devourers hunt Humanoids with the intent of con-suming them body and soul. After a de vourer bringsa target to the brink of death , it pulls the victim'sbody in and traps the creatur e within its own rib-cage. As the victim tries to stave off death (usuallywithout success), the devourer tortures its soul withtelepathic noise. When the victim expires , it under -goes a horrible transformation, springing forth fromthe de vourer 's body to begin its new existence as anUndead servitor of the monster that spawned it.. J••ICHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 9394 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYDHERGOLOTHA kind of yugoloth, dhergo loths rush into battlelike whirlwinds of destruction , lashing out with thefive sets of claws that extend from their squat, bar-rel-shaped bodies. They take contracts to put downuprisings , clear out rabble, and eliminate scoutsand skirmishers , and they revel in the butchery theycreate, their gleeful laughter rising above their vic-tims ' screams.Since dhergoloths are little more than brutes,employers must use caution when instructing them .They can handle simple orders that don't take a lotof time to resolve. When given anything complex todo, however, they either forget what they're told ordon't listen in the first place, and then bungle thetask that was set for them.DHERGOLOTHMedium Fiend (Yugo/0th), Typically Neutral EvilArmor Class 15 (natural armor)Hit Points 119 (l4d8 +56)Speed 30 ft .STR17 (+3)DEX10 (+ 0)Saving Throws Str +6CON19 (+4)INT7 (-2)WIS10 (+0)CHA9 (-1)Damage Resistances cold, fire , lightning; bludgeoning, pie rcin g,and slashing from nonmagical attacksDamage Immunities acid, poisonCondition Immunities poisonedSenses bl indsight 60 ft., darkvision 60 ft. , passive Perception 10Languages Abyssal , Infernal , telepathy 60 ft .Challenge 7 (2 ,900 XP) Proficiency Bonus +3Magic Resistanc e. The dh ergoloth has advantage on savingt hr ows aga inst spe ll s a nd ot her mag ica l effects .ACTIONSMultiattack. Th e dhergoloth makes t wo Claw att acks.Claw. Mele e Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft. , one target.Hi t: 12 (2 d8 + 3) fo rce da mage.Flailing Claws (R echarge 5-6). T he dhe rgolot h moves up to itsspeed in a stra ight li ne an d targets eac h creature within 5 feetof it dur in g its movement. Eac h target must succeed on a DC14 Dexte rit y sav in g th row or take 22 (3 dl 2 + 3) fo rce da mage.Sp ellcasting. Th e dhergoloth casts one of th e fo ll ow in g spe ll s,re quiring no material com pone nts and us ing Charisma as thespe ll castin g ability (s p el l save DC 10 ):At will: darkness.fearTel eport. The dhergoloth teleports, along w it h any equi pmentit is wea rin g o r ca rr yin g, up to 60 feet to an un occup ied spaceit can see.DINOSAURSThe Monster Manual has statistics for several kindsof dinosaurs. This section provides several more.BRONTOSAURUSThis massive four-legged dinosaur is large enoughthat most predators leave it alone. Its deadly tail candrive away or kill smaller threats.DEINONYCHUSThis larger cousin of the velociraptor kills by grip-ping its target with its claws and feeding.DIMETRODONThis sail-backed reptile is commonly found in areaswhere dinosaurs live. It hunts on shores and in shal-low water, filling a similar role to a crocodile.HADROSAURUSA hadrosauru s is a semi-quadrupedal herbivorewith bony h ea d crests. If rais ed from a hatchling, itca n be train ed to ca rry a ride r.UETZALCOATLUSThis giant relative of the pteranodon has a wingspanexceeding 30 fee t. Although it can walk like a quad-rup ed, it is more comfortable in the air.STEGOSAURUSThis heavi ly built dino saur h as rows of plates on itsba ck and a fl exible, spiked tail held high to strikepredators. It tends to travel in he rds of mixed ages.BRONTOSAURUSGargantuan Beast (Dinosaur), UnalignedArmor Class l 5_(natural armor)Hit Points 121 (9d20 + 27)Speed 30 ft .STR21 (+5)DEX9 (-1)CON17 (+3)Saving Throws Con +6Senses passive Perception 10Languages-Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)ACTIONSINT2 (-4)WIS CHA10 (+ O) 7 (-2)Proficiency Bonus +3Stomp. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 20 ft ., onetarget . Hit: 27 (5d8 + 5) bludgeoning damage, and the tar -ge t must succeed on a DC 14 Strength sav ing throw or beknocked prone .Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 20 ft., one target.Hit : 32 (6d8 + 5) bludgeoning damageVELOCIRAPTORThis feathered dinosaur is about the size of a largeturkey. It is an aggressive predator and often huntsin packs to bring down larger prey.ERA --fik--25 - :+?-¥--c:? -2?DEINONYCHUSMedium Beast (Dinosaur) , UnalignedArmor Class 13 (natural armor)Hit Points 26 (4d8 + 8)Speed 40 ft.STR15 (+2)DEX15 (+ 2)Skills Perception +3CON14 (+2)Senses passive Perception 13Languages-Challenge l (200 XP)INT4 (- 3)WIS12 (+l)CHA6 (-2)Proficiency Bonus +2Pounce. If the deinonychus moves at least 20 feet straight to-ward a creature and then hits it with a Claw attack on the sameturn, that target must succeed on a DC 12 Strength savingthrow or be knocked prone . If the target is prone , the deinony-chus can make one Bite attack against it as a bonus action.ACTIONSMultiattack. The deinon yc hus makes one Bite attack and twoClaw attacks.Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft. , one target.Hit: 6 (ld8 + 2) piercing damage.Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit , reach 5 ft ., one target.Hit : 6 (ld8 + 2) slashing damage.DIMETRODONMedium Beast (Dinosaur), UnalignedArmor Class 12 (natural armor)Hit Points 19 (3d8 + 6)Speed 30 ft., swim 20 ft.STR14 (+2)DEX10 (+O)Skills Perception +2CON15 (+2)Senses passive Perception 12Languages-Challenge 1/4 (50 XP)ACTIONSINT2 (-4 )WIS10 (+O)CHA5 (-3)Proficiency Bonus +2Bite. Me le e Weapon Attack: +4 to hit , reach 5 ft ., one target.Hit: 9 (2d6 + 2) piercing damage.C HAP TE R 2 I BESTIARY 95HADROSAURUSLarge Beast (Dinosaur), UnalignedArmor Class l l (natural armor)Hit Points 19 (3dl0 + 3)Speed 40 ft.STR15 (+2)DEX10 (+0)Skills Perception +2CONl3 (+l)Senses passive Perception 12Languages-Challenge l /4 (50 XP)ACTIONSINT2 (-4)WIS10 (+OJCHA5 (-3)Proficiency Bonus +2Tail . Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft. , one target . Hit:7 (ldlO + 2) bludgeoning damage.QUETZALCOATLUSHuge Beast (Dinosaur), UnalignedArmor Class l3 (natural armor)Hit Points 30 (4dl2 + 4)Speed l O ft. , fl y 80 ft.STR15 (+2)DEXl3 (+1)Skills Perception +2CONl3 (+1)Senses pa ss ive Perception 12Languages -Challenge 2 (450 XP)INT2 (-4)WIS10 (+O)CHA5 (-3)Proficiency Bonus +2Flyby . The quetzalcoatlus doesn 't provoke an opportunity at-tack when it flies out of an enemy's reach.ACTIONSBite. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 10 ft., one creature.Hit: 12 (3d6 + 2) piercing damage. If the quetzalcoatlus flewleast 30 feet toward the target immed iately before the hit, thetarget takes an extra 10 (3d6) piercing damage.96 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYHug e Beast (Dinosaur), UnalignedArmor Class l3 (natural armor)Hit Points 76 (8dl2 + 24)Speed 40 ft .STR20 (+5)DEX9 (-1)CON17 (+3)Senses passive Perception lOLanguages -Challenge 4 (1 ,100 XP)ACTIONS•INT2 (-4)WISll (+O)•CHA5 (-3)Proficiency Bonus +2Tail . Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 10 ft ., one target.Hit: 26 (6d6 + 5) piercing damage.VELOCIRAPTORTiny Beast (Dinosaur) , UnalignedArmor Class l3 (natural armor)Hit Points 10 (3d4 + 3)Speed 30 ft.STR6 (-2)DEX14 (+2)Skills Perception +3CONl3 (+1)Senses passive Perception l3Languages -Challenge 1/4 (50 XP)INT4 (-3)WIS12 (+1)CHA6 (-2)Proficiency Bonus +2Pack Tactics . The ve lociraptor has advantage on an attack rollagainst a creature if at least one of the veloc iraptor's allies iswithin 5 feet of the creature and the al ly isn't incapacitated .ACTIONSMultiattack. The velociraptor makes one Bite attack and oneClaw attack.Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft ., one creature.Hit: 5 (ld6 + 2) piercing damage .Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft. , one target.Hit: 4 (ld4 + 2) slashing damage.DOLPHINMedium Beast, UnalignedArmor Class 12 (natural armor)Hit Points 11 (2d8 + 2)Speed Oft., swim 60 ft .STR14 (+2)DEX13 (+l)Skills Perception +3CON13 (+ l)INT6 (- 2)WIS12 (+l)Senses blindsight 60 ft. , passive Perception 13Languages -CHA7 (- 2)Challenge 1/ 8 (25 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Hold Breath. The dolphin can hold its breath for 20 minutes.ACTIONSSlam. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft. , one target.Hit: 5 (ld6 + 2) bludgeoning damage. If the dolphin moved atleast 30 feet straight toward the target immediately before thehit, the target takes an extra 3 (ld6) bludgeoning damage.DOLPHIN DELIGHTERMedium Fey, Typically Chaotic GoodArmor Class 14 (natural armor)Hit Points 27 (5d8 + 5)Speed Oft ., swim 60 ft.STR14 (+2)DEX13 (+l)CON13 (+l)Saving Throws Wis +3, Cha +5INT11 (+0)Skills Perception +3, Performance +5WIS12 (+l)Senses blindsight 60 ft., passive Perception 13Languages Aquan, telepathy 120 ft .CHA16 (+3)Challenge 3 (700 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Hold Breath. The dolphin can hold its breath for 20 minutes.ACTIONSMultiattack. The dolphin makes two Dazzling Slam attacks.Dazzling Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft.,one target. Hit: 5 (ld6 + 2) bludgeoning damage plus 7 (2d6)psychic damage, and the target is blinded until the start of thedolphin's next turn.BONUS ACTIONSDelightful Light (Recharge 5-6). The dolphin magically ema-nates light in a 10-foot radius for a moment. The dolphin andeach creature of its choice in that light gain 11 (2dl0) tempo-rary hit points.Fey Leap. The dolphin teleports up to 30 feet to an unoccupiedspace it can see. Immediately before teleporting, the dolphincan choose one creature within 5 feet of it. That creature canteleport with the dolphin, appearing in an unoccupied spacewithin 5 feet of the dolphin's destination space.DOLPHINSDolphins are clever, social marine mammals thatfeed on small fish and squid. An adult specimen isbetween 5 and 6 feet long.DOLPHINDolphins are symbols of wisdom and playfulnessamong the sea folk of many worlds. Found in oceansand in the Elemental Plane of Water, dolphins arebefriended by druids and rangers, and many talesspeak of dolphins that appeared out of nowhere toprotect swimmers from sharks and other aquaticpredators.DOLPHIN DELIGHTERIn the Feywild, dolphin delighters brighten themoods of those who travel the seas of the Domainsof Delight. Telepathically singing sea chanteys,these dolphins leap and teleport through the lumi-nous waters of Faerie and the Material Plane, andthey are faithful allies to any who battle the forces ofgloom and brutality under the waves.Dolphin delighters often accompany groups of seaelves, tritons, and tortles as guardians and friends. ICHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 97DRAEGLOTHA draegloth is a demon created by an elf priest ofLolth in an unholy, dangerous ritual in which it isinfused with the fey essence of the creator and thefiendish essence of a glabrezu. This ritual rarelysucceeds, but Lolth's faithful consider it worth therisk, as the resulting creature is gifted with innatemagic and physical might. The draegloth usuallyserves its creator, lending its thirst for destruction tothe creator's plans to triumph over rivals.A draegloth is an ogre-sized, four-armed bipedwith purple skin and pale hair. Two of its arms aremuscular, tipped with sharp claws; the other twoare the size and shape of an elf's arms, capable ofdelicate movements. Although the creature is heav-ily muscled, it is graceful like an elf. Its bestial facefeatures glowing red eyes, a doglike snout, and amouth full of sharp teeth.Among the drow noble houses of Menzoberranzanin the Forgotten Realms, a high priestess's success-ful creation of a draegloth is seen as a sign of Lolth'sfavor toward her house-and a sign of the demonlord's disregard for the family's rivals, who were notthus gifted. The creation prompts the leaders of thehouse to begin crafting new plans to strike at its ri-vals when the draegloth is fully grown. These plansuse the draegloth in a significant role, because itsabilities can turn the tide in a battle against a housethat doesn't have a draegloth of its own.Although draegloths plays an important part inthe plans of Lolth's cult, a draegloth can't rise abovethe status of a favored servant to a priest in that cult.Before a draegloth is given any duties, it receives in-struction in accepting the role set for it and not chal-lenging authority. Most draegloths fiercely resentbeing given orders, but thanks to their training, theytypically take out their frustration on their creator'senemies, rather than on their creator. A draegloththat can't suppress its ambitions might abandon itscreator and strike out on its own. Whether theserebellious draegloths are part of Lolth's plan forsowing chaos is unclear.98 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYLarge Fiend (Demon), Typically Chaotic E~ilArmor Class 15 (natural armor)Hit Points 123 (l3dl0 + 52)Speed 30 ft.STR20 (+5)DEX15 (+2)CON18 (+4)Skills Perception +3, Stealth +5INT13 (+l)Damage Resistances cold , fire, lightningDamage Immunities poisonCondition Immunities po isonedWIS11 (+0)Senses darkvision 120 ft ., passive Perception 13Languages Abyssal , Elvish, UndercommonCHA11 (+0)Challenge 7 (2,900 XP) Proficiency Bonus +3Fey Ancestry. The draegloth has advantage on saving throwsagainst being charmed, and magic can 't put it to sleep.ACTIONSMultiattack. The draegloth makes one Bite attack and twoClaw attacks.Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft. , one creature .Hit: 16 (2dl0 + 5) piercing damage.Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target.Hit: 16 (2dl0 + 5) slashing damage.Spel/casting. The draegloth casts one of the fol lowing spe ll s,requiring no material components and us in g Ch aris ma as thespe llc asting abi lit y (spell save DC 11):At w ill : dan cing lights, darkness1/d ay each: confusion.faerie fireDROW ARACHNOMANCERDrow spellcasters who seek to devote themselveswholly to Lolth, the Spider Queen, sometimes walkthe sinister path of the arachnomancer. By offeringup body and soul to Lolth, they gain tremendouspower and a supernatural connection to the ancientspiders of the Demonweb Pits, channeling magicfrom that dread place.DROW ARACHNOMANCERMedium Humanoid (Elf) , Typically Chaotic EvilArmor Class 15 (studded leather)Hit Points 162 (25d8 + 50)Speed 30 ft., climb 30 ft .STR11 (+0)DEX17 (+3)CON14 (+2)INT19 (+4)Saving Throws Con +7 , Int +9 , Cha +8WIS14 (+2)Skills Arcana +9 , Nature +9, Pe rception + 7, Stealth +8Damage Resistances poisonCHA16 (+ 3)Senses blind sight l Oft., darkvision 120 ft ., passive Perception 17Languages Elvi s h, Undercommon , can speak with s pidersChallenge 13 (10,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +5Fey Ancestry. The drow has advantage on saving throws againstbeing charmed, and magic can't put the drow to sleep.Spider Climb. The drow can climb difficult surfaces, includ-ing upside down on ceilings, without needing to make anability check.Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the drow has disadvan-tage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception) checksthat rely on sight.Web Walker. The drow ignores movement restrictions causedby webbing.ACTIONSMultiattack. The drow makes three attacks, using Bite , Poi so n-ous Touch, Web, or a combination of them . One attack can bereplaced by a use of Spellcasting.Bite (Spider Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d8 + 3) piercing damage, and thetarget must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, taking 31(7d8) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damageon a successful one. If the poison damage reduces the targetto 0 hit points, the target is stable but poisoned for l hour,even after regaining hit points, and is paralyzed while poisonedin this way.Poisonous Touch (Humanoid Form Only). Melee WeaponAttack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft ., one target. Hit: 35 (10d6) poi-son damage.Web (Spider Form Only; Recharge 5-6). Ranged Weapon At-tack: +8 to hit, range 30/60 ft., one target. Hit: The target isrestrained by webbing. As an action , the restrained target canmake a DC 15 Strength check, bursting the webbing on a suc-cess. The webbing can also be attacked and destroyed (AC 10;hp 5; vulnerability to iire damage; immunity to bludgeoning,poison , and psychic damage).Spel/casting. The drow casts one of the following spells , re-quiring no material components and using Intelligence as thespellcasting ability (spell save DC 17):At will: dancing lights, mage hand1/day each : darkness, dispel magic, etherealness.faerie fire ,jly,insect plague , invisibilityBONUS ACTIONSChange Shape (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). The drowmagically transforms into a Large spider, remaining in thatform for up to l hour, or back into its true form . Its statistics,other than its size, are the same in each form. It can speak andcast spells while in spider form . Any equipment it is wearing orcarrying in Humanoid form melds into the spider form. It can'tactivate, use, wield, or otherwise beneiit from any of its equip-ment. It reverts to its Humanoid form ifit dies .CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 99. ..DROW FAVORED CONSORTMedium Humanoid (Elf, Wizard), Any AlignmentArmor Class 15 (18 with mage armor)Hit Points 240 (32d8 + 96)Speed 30 ft.STR15 (+2)DEX20 (+5)CON16 (+3)INT18 (+4)Saving Throws Dex +11 , Con +9 , Cha +10WIS15 (+2)CHA18 (+4)Skills Acrobatics+ 11, Athletics +8, Perception +8, Stealth +11Senses darkvision 120 ft ., passive Perception 18Languages Elvish , UndercommonChallenge 18 (20,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +6Fey Ancestry. Th e drow has advantage on savi ng throws againstbe in g char med, a nd magic ca n't put th e drow to s lee p.Sun li gh t Se ns itivit y. Whi le in su nl ight, the drow has disadvan -tage on attack ro ll s, as we ll as on Wisdom (Perception) checksthat re ly on sight .100 CHAPTER '2 I BESTIARYDROW FAVORED CONSORTNearly every prie st e ss of Lolth, including th e po w-erful drow matron moth er in this book, takes an a t-t rac ti ve drow as con so rt . C hos en as much for b ea ut yas fo r magi ca l might, a drow favored con s ort ca nhold their own in both conver sa ti on a nd c omb a t.Combining the rol es of advis or, prote ct or, a nd be-loved, s om e fa vored c ons o rt s a re content with a s up -portin g rol e, while more a mbitious cons ort s as pireto be the power behind th e thron e- or even to cl a imthe t hron e the ms e lv es .Th ose favored con so rt s who prove th eir c unnin ggain the ea r, a nd perhaps even th e he art, of theirpri es t es s and are re li ed on to provide u se ful advice.No position of c on so r t is ass ur ed fo r lon g, though;Lolth's pri es t es s es are notoriously fi ckle, a nd a con-sort must often contend with rivals.Som e favored c onsorts work behind the sc en esto und e rmin e the evils enc ourag ed by Lolth. Oth-ers c an be found in Underda rk ci ti es fr ee of Lolth'sinfluence, where these powerful spe ll ca st e rs applytheir might toward ending her tyranny.ACTIONSMultiattack. The drow makes th ree Sc imi tar or Arca ne Eru p-tio n attacks. The drow can rep lace o ne of t he attacks with a useof Spel lcast ing.Scimitar. Melee Weapo n Att ack: +11 to h it , reach 5 ft ., onetarget. Hit : 8 (ld6 + 5) slas hing damage plus 27 (6d8) poi-son damage .Arcan e Eruption. Ranged Spe ll Attack: +10 to hit, range 120 ft.,one target. Hi t: 36 (8d8) force damage, and the drow can pusht he target up to 10 feet away if it is a Large or smal ler creature.Spellcasting. Th e d row casts one of the fo ll ow ing spel ls, re-qu iri ng no material components an d us ing Intel ligence as thespellcas ti ng ab ilit y (s pe ll save DC 18):At wil l: dancing lights , mage armor, mage hand, message3/d ay eac h: dimension door, fireba/1, invisibility1/day eac h: dark ness.faerie fi re, lev itate (se lf o nl y)REACTIONSPro tective Sh ie ld (3/Day). When the drow or a creature within10 feet ofit is hit by an attack ro ll, the drow gives the target a+5 bonus to its AC u nti l the start of the drow's next tu rn, whichcan cause the trigge ring attack ro ll to miss.DROW HOUSE CAPTAINMedium Human oid (E lf), An y AlignmentArmor Class 16 (chain mail)Hit Points 162 (25d8 + 50)Speed 30 ft .STR14 (+2)DEX19 (+4)CON15 (+2)INT12 (+l)Saving Throws Dex +8, Con +6, Wis +6Skills Perception +6 , Stealth +8WIS14 (+2)Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 16Languages Elvish , UndercommonCHAl3 (+l)Challenge 9 (5 ,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +4Fey Ancestry. The drow has advantage on saving throws againstbeing charmed, and magic can't put the drow to sleep.Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight , the drow has disadvan-tage on attack rol ls, as we ll as on Wisdom (Perception) checksthat rely on sight.ACTIONSMultiattack. The drow makes two Scim itar attacks and oneWhip or Hand Crossbow attack .Scimitar. Mefee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft ., onetarget. Hit : 7 (ld6 + 4) slashing damage plus 14 (4d6) poi-son damage.Whip. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 10 ft. , one target.Hit: 6 (ld4 + 4) slashing damage.Hand Cr ossbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, range 30/120ft. , one target. Hit: 7 (ld6 + 4) piercing damage, and the targetmust succeed on a DC l3 Constitution saving throw or be po i-soned for l hour. If the saving throw fa ils by 5 or more, the tar-get is also unconscious while poisoned in this way. The targetregains consciousness if it takes damage or if another creaturetakes an action to shake it.Spellcasting. The drow casts one of the follow ing spells , requir-ing no material components and using Cha risma as the spell-casting ability (spell save DC 13):At wil l: dancing lightsl/ day each: darkness.faerie fire, levitate (self only)BONUS ACTIONSBattle Command. Choose one creature with in 30 feet of thedrow that the drow can see . If the chosen creature can see orhear the drow, that creature can use its reaction to make onemelee attack or to take the Dodge or Hide action.REACTIONSParry. The drow adds 3 to its AC against one melee attack rollthat would hit it. To do so, the drow mu st see the attacker andbe wielding a me lee weapon.DROW HOUSE CAPTAINA drow house captain leads the troops of an Un-derdark faction, whether defending a stronghold orleading forces against enemies. These officers makeextensive study of strategy and tactics to becomeeffective leaders in battle.Among Lolth's devotees in the city of Menzober-ranzan in the Forgotten Realms, each noble houseentrusts the leadership of its military forces to ahouse captain, who is typically the first or secondson of a drow matron mother (appears in this book).Elsewhere drow house captains fight in the waragainst Lolth, often allying with duergar and otherswho also wish to rid their subterranean world ofthat god's malevolence.TASHACHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 101DROW INQUISITORLolth's worshipers expect treachery- the SpiderQueen enco urages it, after all. A certain amount ofbackstabbing and double-crossing can be managed,but too much can undermine an ent ire community.To keep some semblance of order and to root outtraitors, priestesses of Lolth employ inquisitors.Inquisitors are chosen from the ranks of the priest-hood, and their authority is equaled only by that ofthe drow matron mothers (also in this book) of thenoble houses. Anyone they decide is at odds with thehierarchy faces painful interrogation and usually anexcruciating death.VARIANT: DEMON SUMMONINGSome drow inquisitors have an action that allowsthem to summon a yochlol.Summon Demon (1/Day). The drow attempts to magicallysummon a yochlol (see the Monster Manual), with a 50 percentchance of success . If the attempt fails, the drow takes 5 (l dl 0)psychic damage. Otherwise, the summone d demon appears inan unoccupied space within 60 feet of its summoner, acts asan ally of its summoner, and can't summon other demons . Itremains for 10 minutes, until it or it s summo ner dies, or untilits summoner dismisses it as an action.102 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYDROW INQUISITORMe di um Humanoid (Cleric , Elf) , Typically Neutral EvilArmor Class 16 (breastplate)Hit Points 149 (23d8 + 46)Speed 30 ft .STRll (+l)DEX15 (+2)CON14 (+2 )INT16 (+ 3)Saving Throws Con +7 , Wis +10 , Cha +10WIS21 (+ 5)CHA20 (+ 5)Skills Insi ght +10 , Perceptio n +10 , Rel ig ion +8, Stealth +7Condition Immunities frightenedSenses darkvi sion 120 ft ., passive Perceptio n 20Languages Elvish, UndercommonChallenge 14 (11 ,500 XP) Proficiency Bonus +5Discern Lie. The drow discerns when a creature in earshotspeaks a lie in a language the drow knows.Fey Ancestry. The drow has advantage on saving throws againstbeing charmed, and magic can't put the drow to sleep.Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the drow has disad va n-tage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception) checksthat rel y on sight .ACTIONSMultiattack. The drow makes three Death Lance attacks .Death Lance. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft ., onetarget. Hit : 8 (ld6 + 5) piercing damage plus 18 (4d8) necroticdamage. The target's hit point maximum is reduced by anamount equal to the necrotic damage taken . This reductionlasts until the target finishes a long rest. The target dies if itshit point ma xi mum is reduced to 0.Spellcasting. The drow 's casts one of the following spells,requ iring no material components and using Char is ma as thespellcasting ability (spell save DC 18):At wi ll : dancing lights, detect magic, message, thaumaturgyl /day each: clairvoyance, darkness , detect thoughts, dispel magic,faerie fire , levitate (self only), silence, suggestion, true seeingBONUS ACTIONSSpectral Dagger (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). Thedrow conjures a floating, spectral dagger within 60 feet of itself.The drow can make a me lee spell attack (+ l Oto hit) against onecreature within 5 feet of the dagger. On a hit, the target takes 9(ld8 + 5) force damage.The dagger lasts for l minute. As a bonus action on laterturns, the drow can move the dagger up to 20 feet and repeatthe attack against one creature within 5 feet of the dagger.DROW MATRON MOTHERAmong drow followers of Lolth, each noble houseis led by a matron mother, an influential priestessof Lolth charged with carrying out the god's willwhile also advancing the interests of the family. Ma-tron mothers embody the scheming and treacheryassociated with the Queen of Spiders. Each standsat the center of a vast conspiratorial web, with de-mons , spiders, and conscripted soldiers positionedbetween them and their enemies. Although matronmothers command great power, that power dependson maintaining the Spider Queen's favor, and thegoddess sometimes capriciously takes back whatshe has given. The stat block here represents a ma-tron mother at the height of her power.A matron mother is almost never encounteredalone. She is typically accompanied by a drowfavored consort and a drow house captain, eachof whom appears in this book. Other Underdarkcreatures might also be in the priestess 's presence,providing protection or advice.MOTHERS OF REBELLIONSome matron mothers renounce Lolth and join thewar against their former goddess. Such drow couldbe of any alignment , and they lose the following abil-ities in the stat block: Lolth's Fickle Favor, SummonServant , and Compel Demon. Even without theseabilities, drow matron mothers are formidable op-ponents, and several of them hold positions of greatinfluence in the Underdark armies arrayed againstthe followers of Lolth.A MATRON MOTHER'S LAIRThe palace of a drow matron mother is her homeand fortress. Sigils throughout the building allowthe matron mother to use the following lair actionswhile within it.Any temple of Lolth also functions as a matronmother's lair while she is inside it, unless she hasrenounced Lolth or another matron mother ispresent. When two or more matron mothers gatherwithin a temple of their goddess, none of them canuse it as their lair.LAIR ACTIONSOn initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), thedrow can take one of the following lair actions whenin her lair; she can't tak e the same lair action tworounds in a row:Perceive Interlopers. The drow projects her mindthroughout her lair, marking any potential threatsagainst her or her retinue. Until initiative count 20of the next round, hostile creatures within the laircan't become hidden from her and gain no benefitfrom the invisible condition against her.Spectral Web. A glistening spectral spider weberupts from a point the drow can see within 120feet of her. Each creature within 60 feet of thatpoint must succeed a DC 19 Dexterity savingthrow or be restrained for 1 minute. A creaturecan repeat the saving throw at the end of each ofits turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.Telekinetic Throw. The drow targets one creatureshe can see within 60 fe et of her and attemptsto expel it from her presence. The target mustsucceed on a DC 19 Strength saving throw or beflung 2d6 x 10 feet through the air. A creaturesmashed into a solid object takes ld6 bludgeon-ing damag e for every 10 feet moved. If releasedin midair, the creature takes falling damag eas normal.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY I03Medium Humanoid (Cleric, Elf), Typi cally Neutral EvilArmor Class 17 (half plate)Hit Points 247 (33d8 + 99)Speed 30 ft .STR12 (+l)DEX18 (+4)CON16 (+3)INT17 (+3)Saving Throws Con +9, Wis+ 11, Cha+ 12WIS21 (+ 5)CHA22 (+6)Skills Insight+ 11 , Perception +11 , Religion +9, Stealth +l 0Condition Immunities charmed , frightened , poisonedSenses darkvision 120 ft ., pass ive Per ception 21Languages Elvi sh, UndercommonChallenge 20 (25,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +6Fey Ancestry. The drow has advantage on saving throws againstbeing charmed , and magic can 't put the drow to sleep .Special Equipment. The drow wields a tentacle rod.Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the drow has disadvan-tage on attack ro lls, as wel l as on Wisdom (Perception) checksthat rely on sight.ACTIONSMultiattack. The drow makes two Demon Staff attacks or oneDemon Staff attack and three Tentacle Rod attacks .Demon Sta.ff. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft ., onetarget. Hit: 7 (ld6 + 4) bludgeoning damage, or 8 (ld8 + 4)bludgeoning damage if used with two hands, plus 14 (4d6)psychic damage. The target must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdomsaving throw or become frightened of the drow for l minute.The frightened target can repeat the saving throw at the end ofeach of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success .Tentacle Rod. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 15 ft. , onecreature. Hit : 3 (ld6) bludgeoning damage . If the target is hitthree times by the rod on one turn , the target must succeedon a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or suffer the followingeffects for l minute: the target's speed is halved , it has disad-vantage on Dexterity saving throws , and it can't use reactions.Moreover, on each of its turns, it can take either an action or104 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYa bonus action , but not both . At the end of each of its turns ,it can repeat the saving throw, ending the effect on itself ona success .Divine Flame (2/Day). A 10-foot-radiu s , 40-foot-high columnof di vine fire sprouts in an area up to 120 feet away from thedrow. Each creature in the column must make a DC 20 De x-terity saving throw, taking 14 (4d6) fire damage and 14 (4d6)radiant damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on asuccessful one.Spellcasting. The drow casts one of the fo llowing spel ls, requir-ing no mater ial components and using Charisma as the spell-casting ability (spell save DC 20):At will: command, dancing lights, detect magic, thaumaturgy2/day each : banishment, blade barrier, cure wounds , hold person ,plane shift, silence1/ day each: clairvoyance, darkness, detect thoughts , dispel magic,faerie fire , gate, levitate (self only) , suggestionBONUS ACTIONSLolth's Fickle Favor. The draw bestows the Spider Queen'sblessing on one ally she can see within 30 feet of her. The allytakes 7 (2d6) psychic damage but has advantage on the nextattack roll it makes before the end of its next turn .Summon Servant (1/Day). The drow magically summons aglabrezu or a yochlol (both appear the Monster Manual). Thesummoned creature appears in an unoccupied space within60 feet of its summoner , acts as an ally of its summoner, andcan't summon other demons. It remains for 10 minutes , untilit or its summoner dies , or until its summoner dismisses it asan action .LEGENDARY ACTIONSThe draw can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the op-tions below. Only one legendary action option can be used ata time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The drowregains spent legendary actions at the start of her turn.Compel Demon. An allied demon within 30 feet of the drawuses its reaction to make one attack against a target of thedrow's choice that she can see.Demon Staff. The drow makes one Demon Staff attack.Cast a Spell (Costs 2 Actions). The drow uses Spellcasting.DROW SHADOWBLADEMedium Humanoid (Elf), Any AlignmentArmor Class 17 (studded leather)Hit Points l SO (20d8 + 60)Speed 30 ft.STR14 (+ 2)DEX21 (+5)CON16 (+ 3)INT12 (+l)Saving Throws De x +9 , Con +7 , Wis +6Skills Perception +6, Stealth +9WIS14 (+2)Senses dark vision 120 ft ., passive Perception 16Languages Elvish , UndercommonCHA13 (+ l)Challenge 11 (7 ,200 XP) Proficiency Bonus +4Devil's Sight. Magical darkness doesn't impede the drow'sdarkvision.Fey Ancestry. Th e drow has advantage on saving throws againstbeing charmed, and magic can't put the drow to sleep.Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the drow has disadvan-tage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception) checksthat rely on sight.ACTIONSMultiattack. The drow makes three Shadow Sword attacks.One of the attacks can be replaced by a Hand Crossbow attack.The drow can also use Spellcasting to cast darkness.Shadow Sword. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +9 to hit,reach 5 ft. or range 30/60 ft., one target. Hit: 27 (7d6 + 5) ne-crotic damage.Hand Crossbow. _Ranged Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, range 30 / 120ft., one target. Hit: 8 (ld6 + 5) piercing damage, and the targetmust succeed on a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or be poi-soned for l hour. If the saving throw fails by 5 or more, the tar-get is also unconscious while poisoned in this way . The targetregains consciousness if it takes damage or if another creaturetakes an action to shake it.Spellcasting. The drow casts one of the following spells, requir-ing no material components and us ing Charisma as the spell-casting ability (spell save DC 13):At will: dancing lights, darkness1/day each:faeriefire, levitate (self only)BONUS ACTIONSShadow Step. While in dim light or darkness, the drow tele-ports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, upto 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see that is also in dimlight or darkness. It then has advantage on the first melee at-tack it makes before the end of the turn.DROW SHADOWBLADEDrow shadowblades steal down the dim passagesof the Underdark, bound on errands of mayhem.They protect enclaves and Underdark cities fromenem ies and track down thieves who make off withprized treasures. In the city of Menzoberranzan inthe Forgotten Realms, noble houses often employshadowblades to eliminate rivals from other houses.In communities free of Lolth's sway, they serve asspies tasked with foiling the plots of that demonlord's cult. In any role they take on, they move unde-tected until the moment they attack-and then theyare the last thing their victims see.A shadowblade gains their powers over shadowvia a ritual in which they kill a shadow demon andmystically prevent it from re-forming in the Abyss,siphoning its essence into themselves.VARIANT : DEMON SUMMONINGSome drow shadowblades have an action that al-lows them to summon a demon.Summon Shadow Demon (1/Day). The drow attempts to magi-ca ll y summon a shadow demon (see the Monster Manual) witha 50 percent chance of success. If the attempt fails, the drowtakes 5 (ldl0) psychic damage. Otherwise, the summoneddemon appears in an unoccupied space within 60 feet of itssummoner, acts as an ally of its summoner, and can't summonother demons. It remains for 10 minutes , until it or it s sum-moner dies, or until its summoner dismisses it as an action.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY IO$DuERGARDuergar are dwarves of the deep reaches of the Un -derdark and other sunless realms. Their personali-ties and abilities have been deeply impacted by theirancestors ' captivity and torment by mind flayers;they were infused with powerful psionic abilities butalso a profound gloom. In some , this strain of sor-row inspires works of grand but melancholic beauty,while in others, it manifests as rage.Like many who dwell in the Underdark, duergarmust constantly be on guard against the raids andplots of their neighbors. To this end, duergar war-riors fulfill a variety of combat roles, often marryingtheir fury in battle with their psionic abilities ort ra ining dang e rous Underdark cr ea tur es as mounts .De nigrat ed by som e as joyle ss, due rgar ar e in factd ee ply pa ssion ate in all th at th ey do- even if thatpassion ra re ly ma nife sts as mirth . Th ey bring anro6 CHAPTER 2 I BEST I ARYemotional intensity to their lives, whether they're ex-ploring neighboring tunnels , defending their homes,engaging with their families , or crafting bold newworks. The bonds of friendship and kinship arestrong, though navigating the inevitable outbursts offrustration and despair is not always easy. Similarly,duergar tend to be very community-minded - in theUnderdark, all must cooperate to survive.Among the duergar of th e Forgotten Realms , cre -ation is a fiercely passionate process. They tend tofavor works that are sturdy and grand , but in a bare,stripped-down fashion that favors geometric forms.The strongholds they design are blocky and stark ,and the weapons they forge are blatantly tools ofviolence. While others may decry their creations ascold and ba re of orn a mentation to th e point of a us -terity, due rgar se e them as honoring th e materialsus ed and hon e st a bout th eir purpos e.DUERGAR DESPOTDuergar despots replace parts of their bodies withmechanical devices that they control through theirpsionic abilities.DUERGAR DESPOTMedium Humanoid (Dwarf) , Any AlignmentArmor Class 21 (natural armor)Hit Points 119 (14d8 + 56)Speed 25 ft.STR20 (+5)DEX5 (-3)CON19 (+4)Saving Throws Con +8, Wis +6Damage Immunities poisonINT15 (+2)WIS14 (+2)CHA13 (+l)Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, fr ightened,paralyzed , poisonedSenses darkvision 120 ft ., passive Perception 12Languages Dwarvis h, UndercommonChallenge 12 (8,400 XP) Proficiency Bonus +4Magic Resistance. The duergar has advantage on saving throwsagainst spells and other magical effects.Psychic Engine. When the duergar suffers a critical hit or isreduced to 0 hit points, psychic energy erupts from its frameto deal 14 (4d6) psychic damage to each creature within 5feet of it.Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the duergar has dis-advantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception)checks that rely on sight.ACTIONSMultiattack. The duergar makes two Iron Fist attacks and twoStomping Foot attacks. After one of the attacks, the duergarcan move up to its speed without provoking opportunity at-tacks. It can replace one of the attacks with a use of Flame Jet.Iron Fist. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one tar-get. Hit: 23 (4d8 + 5) bludgeoning damage. If the target is aLarge or smaller creature, it must succeed on a DC 17 Strengthsaving throw or be pushed up to 30 feet away in a straight lineand be knocked prone.Stomping Foot . Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., onetarget. Hit: 10 (ldl0 + 5) bludgeoning damage, or 21 (3dl0 + 5)to a prone target.Flame jet. The duergar spews flames in a line 100 feet long and5 feet wide. Each creature in the line must make a DC 16 Dex-terity saving throw, taking 18 (4d8) fire damage on a failed save ,or half as much damage on a successful one.Spe/lcasting (Psionics). The duergar casts one of the followings pell s, requiring no spell components and using Intelligence asthe s pellcasting ability (spell save DC 12) :At will : mage hand, minors illusion1/day: stinking cloudDUERGAR KAVALRACHNIKavalrachni are duergar cavalry trained to fightwhile riding female steeders (in this book) or otherUnderdark creatures as mounts.DUERGAR KAVALRACHNIMedium Humanoid (Dwarf), Any AlignmentArmor Class 16 (scale mail , shield)Hit Points 26 (4d8 + 8)Speed 25 ft .STR14 (+2)DEX11 (+0)CON14 (+2)Damage Resistances poisonINT11 (+0)WIS10 (+0)Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 10Languages Dwarvish , UndercommonCHA9 (-1)Challenge 2 (450 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Cavalry Training. When the duergar hits a target with a meleeattack while mounted, the mount can use its reaction to makeone melee attack against the same target.Duergar Resilience. The duergar has advantage on savingthrows against spells and the charmed, paralyzed, and poi-soned conditions.Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the duergar has dis-advantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception)checks that rely on sight.ACTIONSMultiattack. The duergar makes two War Pick attacks .War Pick. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft ., onetarget. Hit: 6 (ld8 + 2) piercing damage plus 5 (2d4) poi-son damage.Heavy Crossbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +2 to hit, range100/400 ft ., one target. Hit : 5 (ldl0) piercing damage.Shared Invisibility (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). Theduergar magically turns invisible for up to 1 hour or until itattacks, it forces a creature to make a saving throw, or its con-centration is broken (as if concentrating on a spell) . Any equip-ment the duergar wears or carries is invisible with it. While theinvisible duergar is mounted , the mount is invi sible as well. Theinvisibility ends early on the mount immediately after it attacks .CHAPTER 2 [ BESTIARY 107DUERGAR MIND MASTERMedium Humanoid (Dwarf), Any AlignmentArmor Class 14 (leather armor)Hit Points 39 (6d8 + 12)Speed 25 ft .STR11 (+0)DEX17 (+3)Saving Throws Wis +2CON14 (+2)Skills Perception +2 , Stealth +5Damage Resistances poisonINT15 (+2)WIS10 (+O)CHA12 (+l)Senses darkv ision 120 ft ., truesight 30 ft., passive Perception 12Languages Dwarvish , UndercommonChallenge 2 (450 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Duergar Resilience. The duergar has advantage on savingthrows against spells and the charmed, paralyzed, and poi-soned conditions.Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the duergar has dis-advantage on attack rolls, as we ll as on Wisdom (Perception)checks that rely on sight.ACTIONSMultiattack. The duergar makes two Mind-Poison Dagger at-tacks. It can replace one attack wit h a use of Mind Mastery.108 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY•DUERGAR MIND MASTERWearing fearsome masks, duergar mind mastersusually operate as spies, both inside and beyond aduergar stronghold. Their psionically augmentedabilities enable them to see through illusions withease and shrink down to miniature size to spy ontheir targets.DUERGAR SOULBLADESoulblades are duergar combatants whose masteryof psionics allows them to manifest blades of psy-chic energy to slice apart their foes.Mind-Poison Dagger. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5ft., one target . Hit: 5 (ld4 + 3) piercing damage plus 10 (3d6)psychic damage, or 1 piercing damage plus 10 (3d6) psychicdamage while under the effect of Reduce .Invisibility (Recharge 4-6) . The duergar magically turns in-visible for up to 1 hour or until it attacks, it forces a creatureto make a saving throw, or its concentration is broken (as ifconcentrating on a spell). Any equipment the duergar wears orcarries is invisible with it.Mind Mastery. The duergar targets one creature it can seewithin 60 feet ofit. The target must succeed on a DC 12 Intelli -gence saving throw, or the duergar causes it to use its reaction,if available, either to make one weapon attack against anothercreature the duergar can see or to move up to 10 feet in a direc-tion of the duergar 's choice. Creatures that can't be charmedare immune to this effect.BONUS ACTIONSReduce (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). For 1 minute,the duergar magically decreases in size, along with anythingit is wearing or carrying. While reduced, the duergar is Tiny,reduces its weapon damage to 1, and makes attack rolls , abil-ity checks , and saving throws with disadvantage if they useStrength. It gains a +5 bonus to all Dexterity (Stealth) checksand a +5 bonus to its AC. It can also take a bonus action oneach of its turns to take the Hide action.LEFT TO RIGHT : OUERGAR SouLBLADE, WARLORD, AND XARRORNDUERGAR SOULBLADEMedium Huma1?oid (Dwarf), Any AlignmentArmor Class 14 (leather armor)Hit Points 27 (6d8)Speed 25 ft .STR16 (+3)DEX16 (+3)CON10 (+0)Damage Resistances poisonINT11 (+0)WIS10 (+0)Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 10Languages Dwarvish, UndercommonCHA12 (+l)Challenge 1 (200 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Duergar Resilience, The duergar has advantage on savingthrows against spells and the charmed, paralyzed, and poi-soned conditions.Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the duergar has dis-advantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception)checks that rely on sight.ACTIONSSou/blade. Melee Spell Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft. , one target .Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) force damage , or 13 (3d6 + 3) force damagewhile under the effect of Enlarge.Invisibility (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). The duergarmagically turns invisible for up to l hour or until it attacks , itforces a creature to make a saving throw, or its concentrationis broken (as if concentrating on a spell). Any equipment theduergar wears or carries is invisible with it.BONUS ACTIONSEnlarge (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). For l minute,the duergar magically increases in size, along with anything itis wearing or carrying. While enlarged, the duergar is Large ,doubles its damage dice on Strength-based weapon attacks(included in the attacks) , and makes Strength checks andStrength saving throws with advantage. If the duergar lacks theroom to become Large, it attains the maximum size possible inthe space available.CHAPTER 2 J BESTIARY 109DUERGAR STONE GUARDStone g uard s are elite troops deployed in s mallnumbers to bolster war bands of regulars or orga-nized into elite strike forces for specific missions.DUERGAR STONE GUARDMedium Humanoid (Dwarf), Any AlignmentArmor Class 18 (chain mail , shield)Hit Points 39 (6d8 + 12)Speed 25 ft.STR18 (+4)DEX11 (+0)CON14 (+2)Damage Resistances poisonINT11 (+0)WIS10 (+O)Senses darkvision 120 ft ., passive Perception 10Languages Dwarvish , UndercommonCHA9 (-1)Challenge 2 (450 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Duergar Resilience. Th e duergar has advantage on savingthrows against spells and the charmed, paralyzed, and poi-soned conditions.Phalanx Formation. The duergar has advantage on attack rollsand Dexterity saving throws while stand ing within 5 feet of anally wie lding a shield.Sunlight Sensitivity. Whi le in sun li ght, the duergar has dis-advantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception)checks that rel y on sight.CHAPTER 2 j BESTIARYACTIONSMultiattack. The duergar makes two Shortsword or Jave-lin attacks.Shortsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft. , onetarget. Hit: 7 (ld6 + 4) piercing damage, or 11 (2d6 + 4) pierc-ing damage while under the effect of Enlarge.Javelin. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft .or range 30/120 ft. , one target. Hit: 7 (1 d6 + 4) piercing dam-age, or 11 (2d6 + 4) piercing damage whi le under the effectof Enlarge.Invisibility (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest) . The duergarmagically turns invisible for up to l hour or until it attacks, itforces a creature to make a saving throw, or its concentrationis broken (as if concentrating on a spell). Any equipment theduergar wears or carries is invisible with it.BONUS ACTIONSEnlarge (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). For 1 minute,the duergar magically increases in size, along with anything itis wearing or carrying. While enlarged, the duergar is Large,doubles its damage dice on Strength -based weapon attacks(included in the attacks) , and makes Strength checks andStrength saving throws with advantage. If the duergar lack s theroom to become Large, it attains the maximum size possible inthe space avai labl e.DUERGAR WARLORDMedium Humanoid (Dwarf), Any AlignmentArmor Class 20 (plate mail, shield)Hit Points 75 (l 0d8 + 30)Speed 25 ft .STR18 (+4)DEX11 (+0)CON17 (+3)Damage Resistances poisonINT12 (+l)WIS12 (+ l)Senses darkvision 120 ft ., passive Perception 11Languages Dwarvish, UndercommonCHA14 (+2)Challenge 6 (2,300 XP) Proficiency Bonus +3Duergar Resilience. The duergar has advantage on savingthrows against spells and the charmed , paralyzed, and poi-soned conditions .Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the duergar has dis-advantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception)checks that rely on sight.ACTIONSMultiattack. The duergar makes three Psychic-Attuned Ham-mer or Javelin attacks and uses Call to Attack.Psychic-Attuned Hammer. Me/ee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit,reach 5 ft ., one target. Hit: 9 (ldl0 + 4) bludgeoning damage,or 15 (2dl0 + 4) bludgeoning damage while under the effect ofEnlarge, plus 5 (ldl0) psychic damage.Javelin. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft .or range 30/120 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (l d6 + 4) piercing dam-age, or 11 (2d6 + 4) piercing damage while under the effectof Enlarge.Call to Attack. Up to three allies within 120 feet of this duer-gar that can hear it can each use their reaction to make oneweapon attack.Invisibility (Recharge 4-6). The duergar magically turns in -visible for up to l hour or until it attacks, it forces a creatureto make a saving throw, or its concentration is broken (as ifconcentrating on a spell). Any equipment the duergar wears orcarries is invisible with it.BONUS ACTIONSEnlarge (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). For l minute,the duergar magically increases in size, along with anything itis wearing or carrying. While enlarged, the duergar is Large,doubles its damage dice on Strength-based weapon attacks(included in the attacks), and makes Strength checks andStrength saving throws with advantage. If the duergar lacks theroom to become Large , it attains the maximum size possible inthe space available.REACTIONSScouring Instruction. When an ally that the duergar can seemakes a d20 roll, the duergar can roll a d6 , and the ally can addthe number rolled to the d20 by taking 3 (ld6) psychic damage.DUERGAR WARLORDA warlord is cunning, inspiring, and merciless inequal parts. A skilled leader in battle, the warlordcan use spikes of psionic energy to compel the war-riors they command to fight harder.DUERGAR XARRORNXarrorn are specialists who construct weapons us-ing a mixture of alchemy and psionics.DUERGAR XARRORNMedium Humanoid (Dwarf), Any AlignmentArmor Class 18 (plate mail)Hit Points 26 (4d8 + 8)Speed 25 ft.STR16 (+3)DEX11 (+0)CON14 (+2)Damage Resistances poisonINT11 (+0)WIS10 (+ 0)Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 10Languages Dwarvish , UndercommonCHA9 (-1)Challenge 2 (450 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Duergar Resilience. The duergar has advantage on savingthrows against spells and the charmed, paralyzed, and poi-soned conditions.Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the duergar has dis-advantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception)checks that rely on sight.ACTIONSFire Lance. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 10 ft., onetarget. Hit: 9 (l dl 2 + 3) piercing damage, or 16 (2dl 2 + 3)piercing damage while under the effect of Enlarge, plus 3 (ld6)fire damage.Fire Spray (Recharge 5-6). From its fire lance, the duergarshoots a 15-foot cone of fire or a line of fire 30 feet long and5 feet wide. Each creature in that area must make a DC 12Dexterity saving throw, taking 10 (3d6) fire damage on a failedsave, or half as much damage on a successful one.Invisibility (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). The duergarmagically turns invisible for up to l hour or until it attacks, itforces a creature to make a saving throw, or its concentrationis broken (as if concentrating on a spell). Any equipment theduergar wears or carries is invisible with it.BONUS ACTIONSEnlarge (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). For l minute,the duergar magically increases in size, along with anything itis wearing or carrying. While enlarged, the duergar is Large,doubles its damage dice on Strength -based weapon attacks(included in the attacks), and makes Strength checks andStrength saving throws with advantage. If the duergar lacks theroom to become Large, it attains the maximum size possible inthe space available.IICHAPTER '2 I BESTIARY IUDUERGAR HAMMERERMedium Construct (Dwarf), Any AlignmentArmor Class 17 (natural armor)Hit Points 33 (6d8 + 6)Speed 20 ft .STR17 (+3)DEX7 (-2)CON12 (+l)Damage Immunities poisonINT5 (-3)WIS5 (-3)CHA5 (-3)Condition Immunities charmed , ex haustion , frightened ,paralyzed , petrified , poisonedSenses dar kv is ion 60 ft ., passive Perception 7Languages understands Dwarvish but can't speakChallenge 2 (450 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Siege Monster. The hammerer deals double damage to objectsand structures .ACTIONSMultiattack. The hammerer makes one Claw attack and oneHammer attack.Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.Hit: 6 (ld6 + 3) piercing damage.Hammer. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one tar-get. Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) bludgeoning damage.REACTIONSEngine of Pain. Immediately after a creature within 5 feet of thehammerer hits it with an attack roll, the hammerer makes aHammer attack against that creature.ll2, CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY•DUERGAR CONSTRUCTSCreative duergar engineers have built numerouswar machines, including some that can be fusedwith a duergar. Such a duergar-machine hybrid isfueled by the duergar's psionic energy, and the duer-gar inside the machine can psychically channel paininto power when attacked.These machines are deployed to assist with con-struction projects and war. Some duergar bravelyvolunteer to become hybrids, while other duergarare forced into the fusion by Underdark tyrants.Unless incapacitated, the duergar inside a ma-chine can extricate themself from it over the courseof a short rest, completing the process at therest's end.DUERGAR HAMMERERThe duergar hammerer is a digging machine andsiege engine, used to dig tunnels and besiege enemyfortifications.DUERGAR SCREAMERA duergar screamer uses sonic energy to grind rockinto dust and to hurl invaders to the ground.DUERGAR SCREAMERMedium Construct (Dwarf) , Any AlignmentArmor Class 15 (natural armor)Hit Points 38 (7d8 + 7)Speed 20 ft .STR18 (+4)DEX7 (-2)CON12 (+l)Damage Immunities poisonINT5 (-3)WIS5 (- 3)CHA5 (-3)Condition Immunities charmed, ex haustion, frightened ,paralyzed , petrified , poisonedSenses darkv ision 60 ft ., passive Perception 7Languages understands Dwarvish but can't speakChallenge 3 (700 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2ACTIONSMultiattack. The screamer makes one Drill attack, and it usesSonic Scream.Drill. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.Hit: 10 (ldl2 + 4) piercing damage .Sonic Scream. The screamer emits destructive energy in a 15-foot cube. Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 11Strength saving throw or take 7 (2d6) thunder damage and beknocked prone.REACTIONSEngine of Pain. Immediately after a creature within 5 feet of thescreamer hits it with an attack roll, the screamer makes a Drillattack against that creature.DYBBUKDybbuks ar e demons that terrorize mortals on theMaterial Plane by possessing corpses and givingthem a se mblance of life, after which the demonsuse them to engage in a range of sordid activities.In their natural form , dybbuks appear as translu-cent flying jellyfish, trailing long tentacles as theymove through the air . They rarely travel in this fash-ion, howeve r. Instead, a dybbuk poss e sses a suitablecorpse as a vehicle, rousing the body from death.Dybbuks delight in terrorizing oth er cr e aturesby making their host bodies behave in horrifyingways- throwing up gouts of blood, excreting pilesof squirming maggots , and contorting their limbs inimpossible ways as they scuttle across the ground.DYBBUKMedium Fiend (Demon), Typically Chaotic EvilArmor Class 14Hit Points 37 (5d8 + 15)Speed Oft ., 40 ft. (hover)STR6 (-2 )DEX19 (+ 4)CON16 (+ 3)INT16 (+3)WIS15 (+2)Skills Deception +6, Intimidatio n +4, Percepti o n +4CHA14 (+2)Damage Resistances acid , cold , fir e, lightning, thunder;bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing from nonmagical attacksDamage Immunities poisonCondition Immunities charmed , exhau stion , fri ghtened ,grappled , paralyzed, petrified , poisoned , prone, restrainedSenses darkvisi o n 120 ft. , passive Perception 14Languages Ab yssal, Common , telepathy 120 ft.Challenge 4 (1 ,100 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Incorporeal Movement. The dybbuk can move through othercreatures and objects as if they were difficult terra in. It takes 5(ldlO) force damage ifit ends its turn inside an object .Magic Resistance. The dybbuk has advantage on saving throwsaga inst spel ls and other magical effects.ACTIONTentacle. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one tar-get. Hit: l3 (2d8 + 4) necrotic damage. If the target is a crea-ture , its hit point maximum is also reduced by 3 (ld6) . Thisreduction lasts until the target finishes a short or long rest. Thetarget dies if its hit point maximum is reduced to 0.Possess Corpse (Recharge 6). The dybbuk disappears into anintact corpse within 5 feet of it that belonged to a Large orsmal ler Beast or Humanoid . The dybbuk gains 20 temporaryhit po in ts . While possessing the corpse, the dybbuk adopts thecorpse's size and can't use Incorporeal Movement. Its gamestatistics otherwise remain the same.The possession la sts until the temporary hit points are lostor the dybbuk ends it as a bonus action. When the possessionends , the dybbuk appears in an unoccupied space within 5 feetof the corpse.Spellcasting. The dybbuk casts one of the follow in g spells ,requiring no material components and usin g Charis ma as thespellcasting ability (spell save DC 12):At will: dimension door3/ day: phantasmal forceBONUS ACTIONSControl Corpse. Wh il e Possess Corpse is active, the dybbukmakes the corpse do something unnatural, such as vomitblood , twist its head al l the way around, or cause a quadrupedto move as a biped. Any Beast or Humanoid that sees thisbehavior must succeed on a DC 12 Wisdom saving throw orbecome frightened of the dybbuk for l minute. The frightenedcreature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of itsturns , ending the effect on itself on a success. A creature thatsucceeds on a saving throw aga in st this ability is immune toControl Corpse for 24 hours.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY II3EIDOLONTo prot ec t sites the y d ee m holy, gods o ft en re ly on e i-dolons, gh os tly spirits bo und to safegua rd a sacr edplace. Forged from th e souls of thos e wi th unwav-e ring devotion, eidolo ns stalk temples a nd vaults toe nsur e that no enemy de fil es , dam a ges , or plunde rsth ese sit es . If an en emy se ts foot inside a ward edlocation , th e eidolon plunges into a statu e speciallyprep ared to house its soul; it then animat es this e f-figy and us es the statu e to drive out th e intrud e rs .EIDOLONMediu m Und ead, A ny Alignme ntArmor Class 9Hit Points 63 (l8d8 - 18)Speed Oft ., fl y 40 ft . (hover)STR7 (-2)DEX8 (-1)Saving Throws Wis +8Skills Perception +8CON9 (-1)INT14 (+ 2)WIS19 (+ 4)CHA16 (+3)Damage Resistances acid , fire , lightn ing, thunder; bludgeoning,piercing , and slashing from nonmagical attacksDamage Immunities cold, necrotic, poiso nCondition Immunities charmed, exhaus t io n, frightened ,grappled , paralyzed , petr ified , po isone d , prone , restrainedSenses dark v is ion 60 ft ., passive Perception 18Languages the languages it knew in lifeChallenge 12 (8,400 XP) Proficiency Bonus +4Incorporeal Movement. The eidolon can move through othercreatures and objects as if they were difficult terrain. It takes5 (ldlO) force damage ifit ends its turn inside an object otherthan a sacred statue.Sacred Animation (Recharge 5-6). When the eidolon movesinto a space occupied by a sacred statue, the eidolon can disap-pear , causing the statue to become a creature under the eido-lon 's control. The eidolon uses the sacred st a tue 's stat block inplace of its own .Turn Resistance. The eidolon has advantage on sa ving thro wsagainst any effect that turns Undead.Unusual Nature. The eidolon doesn 't require air, food,drink , or s leep.ACTIONSDivine Dread. Each creature within 60 feet of the eidolon thatcan see it must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom s aving throw orbe frightened of it for l minute . While frightened in this way,the creature must take the Dash action and mo ve away fromthe eidolon by the s afest available route at the start of each ofits turns , unless there is nowhere for it to mo ve, in which casethe creature also becomes s tunned until it ca n mov e again. Afright e ned target can repeat the saving throw at the end of eachof its turn s, ending the effe ct on it s elf on a s ucces s. If a tar g et' ss avin g thro w is s ucces sful or the effect ends for it, the target isimmune to any eidolon 's Di vi ne Dread for the next 24 hour s.II4, CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYSACRED STATUELarg e Constr uct , As the Eidolon's AlignmentArmor Class 19 (natural armor)Hit Points 95 (lOdlO + 40)Speed 25 ft.STR19 (+4)DEX8 (-1)Saving Throws Wis +8CON19 (+4)INT14 (+2)WIS19 (+4)CHA16 (+3)Damage Resistances acid , fire , lightning; bludgeoning , piercing,and slash ing from nonmag ical attacksDamage Immunities cold , necrotic , poisonCondition Immunities charmed, exhaustion , frightened,paralyzed , petrified , poisonedSenses darkvision 60 ft., passive Percept ion 14Languages the languages the eidolon knew in lifeFalse Appearance. If the statue is motionless at the start ofcombat, it has advantage on its initiative roll. Moreover, if acreature ha s n't observed the statue move or act , that creaturemust succeed on a DC 18 Intelligence (In vesti gation) check todiscern th at the statue isn't an object.Ghostly Inhabitant. The eidolon that enters the statue remain sinside it until the statue drop s to O hit point s , the eidolon usesa bonus action to move out of the statue, or the eidolon isturned or forced out by an effect such as the dispel evil and goodspell . When the eidolon leaves the statue , it appears in an un-occupied s pace within 5 feet of the statue.Inert. Without an eidolon in s ide, the statue is an object.Unusual Nature. The statue doesn't require air, food,drink , or sleep.ACTIONSMultiattack. The statue makes two Slam or Rock attacks .Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, rea c h 10 ft ., one target.Hit: 43 (6dl2 + 4) bludgeonin g damag e .Rock. Ran ge d Weapon Attack: +8 to hit , ra nge 60 ft. /2 40 ft ., o netarget . Hit: 37 (6dl0 + 4) blud ge onin g d am age.If &\VI &11At1AMV1 el&1d.riV1 iV1vi{e1 yolA over ford.iV1V1er, coMe with &\VI eMpty 1toM&1ch._Their 1ood.will exteV1J.~ to he&1piV11 portioV1\.Note to \elf: \eV1J. \oMe of MY. 1pri~1 el&1d.riV1frieV1d.l to vi1it Mord.eV1k&1iV1eV1. Th&1t 1II te&1chhiM to li1hteV1 1Ap-TASHAELADRINEladrin dwell in the verdant splendor of the Feywild.They are related to the elves found on the MaterialPlane. But while other elves can temper their wildimpulses, eladrin are ruled by emotion - and due totheir magical nature, they undergo physical changesto match their changes in temperament.Eladrin have spent centuries in the Feywild, andmost of them have become Fey creatures as a re-sult-those presented here are of the Fey variety.Some are still Humanoid, however, similar in thatrespect to their other elven kin.The magic flowing through eladrin responds totheir emotional state by transforming them into dif-ferent seasonal aspects, with behaviors and abilitiesthat change with their forms. Some eladrin mightremain in a particular aspect for years, while othersrun through the emotional spectrum each week.CHANGEABLE NATURESWhenever one of the eladrin presented here finishesa long rest, they can associate themself with a dif-ferent season, provided they aren't incapacitated.When the eladrin makes this change, they usethe stat block of the new season rather than theirold stat block. Any damage the eladrin sustainedin their previous form applies to the new form,as do any conditions or other ongoing effects af-fecting them.AUTUMN ELADRINEladrin often enter the autumn season when theyare overcome by feelings of goodwill. In this aspect,they defuse conflicts and alleviate suffering by usingtheir magic to relieve any ailments that afflict thepeople who come to them for aid. They tolerate noviolence in their presence and move quickly to settledisputes, to ensure that peace continues to reign.AUTUMN ELADRINMedium Fey (Elf), Typically Chaotic NeutralArmor Class 19 (natural armor)Hit Points 165 (22d8 + 66)Speed 30 ft.STR12 (+l)DEX16 (+3)CON16 (+3)Skills Insight +7, Medicine +7Damage Resistances psychicINT14 (+2)WIS17 (+3)Senses darkvision 60 ft ., passive Perception 13Languages Common, Elvish, SylvanCHA18 (+4)Challenge 10 (5,900 XP) Proficiency Bonus +4Enchanting Presence. Any non-eladrin creature that starts itsturn within 60 feet ofthe eladrin must make a DC 16 Wisdomsaving throw. On a failed save, the creature becomes charmedby the eladrin for 1 minute. On a successful save, the crea-ture becomes immune to any eladrin 's Enchanting Presencefor 24 hours .Whenever the eladrin deals damage to the charmed creature,the charmed creature can repeat the saving throw, ending theeffect on itself on a success .Magic Resistance. The eladrin has advantage on saving throwsagainst spells and other magical effects.ACTIONSMultiattack. The eladrin makes two Longsword or Longbowattacks. It can replace one attack with a use ofSpellcasting.Longsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one tar-get. Hit: 5 (ld8 + 1) slashing damage, or 6 (ldl0 + 1) slashingdamage if used with two hands, plus 22 (Sd8) psychic damage.Longbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, range 150/600 ft .,one target. Hit : 7 (ld8 + 3) piercing damage plus 22 (Sd8) psy-chic damage.Spellcasting. The eladrin casts one of the following spells,requiring no material components and using Charisma as thespellcasting ability (spell save DC 16) :At will : hold person2/day each: cure wounds (as a 5th-level spell), lesser restoration1/day each: greater restoration, revivifyBONUS ACTIONSFey Step (Recharge 4-6). The eladrin teleports, along with anyequipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 30 feet to an unoccu-pied space it can see.REACTIONSFoster Peace. If a creature charmed by the eladrin hits with anattack roll while within 60 feet of the eladrin , the eladrin mag-ically causes the attack to miss, provided the eladrin can seethe attacker.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY II$SPRING ELADRINTheir hearts filled with joy, spring eladrin cavortthrough their sylvan realms, their songs and laugh-ter filling the air. These playful e ladrin beguile othercreatures to fill them with the joy of spring. Theirantics can lead other creatures into danger andmake mischief for them.SPRING ELADRINMedium Fey (Elf), Typically Chaotic NeutralArmor Class 19 (natural armor)Hit Points 165 (22d8 + 66)Speed 30 ft.STR14 (+2)DEX16 (+3)CON16 (+3)INT18 (+4)Skills Deception +8, Persuasion +8Damage Resistances psychicWIS11 (+O)Senses darkvision 60 ft. , passive Perception 10Languages Common, Elvish, SylvanCHA18 (+4)Challenge 10 (5,900 XP) Proficiency Bonus +4Joyful Presence. Any non-eladrin creature that starts its turn _within 60 feet of the eladrin must make a DC 16 Wisdom savingthrow. On a failed save, the creature becomes charmed by theeladrin for 1 minute. On a successful save, the creature be -comes immune to any eladrin's Joyful Presence for 24 hours.Whenever the eladrin deals damage to the charmed creature,the charmed creature can repeat the saving throw , ending theeffect on itself on a success.Magic Resistance. The eladrin has advantage on saving throwsagainst spells and other magical effects.ACTIONSMultiattack. The eladrin makes two Longsword or Longbowattacks. It can replace one attack with a use of Spellcasting .Longsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit , reach 5 ft., on~ tar-get . Hit : 6 (ld8 + 2) slashing damage , or 7 (ldlO + 2) slashingdamage if used with two hands , plus 22 (5d8) psychic damage .Longbow. Ranged Weapon Atta ck: +7 to hit , range 150/600 ft. ,one target . Hit: 7 (ld8 + 3) piercing damage plus 22 (5d8) psy-chic damage.Spellcasting. The eladrin casts one of the following spells,requiring no material components and using Charisma as thespellcasting ability (spell save DC 16) :At will: Tasha's hideous laughter1/day each : major image , suggestionBONUS ACTIONSFey Step (Recharge 4-6). The eladrin teleports, along with anyequipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 30 feet to an unoccu-pied space it can see.II6 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY•SUMMER ELADRINWhen angered, eladrin e nter the season of summer,a burning, tempestuous state that transforms theminto aggressive warriors eager to vent their wrath.Their magic responds to their fury and amplifiestheir fighting ability, helping them move with aston-ishing quickness and strike with terrible force.SUMMER ELADRINMedium Fey (Elf), Typi ca lly Chaotic NeutralArmor Class 19 (natural armor)Hit Points 165 (22d8 + 66)Speed 50 ft.STR19 (+4)DEX21 (+5)CON16 (+3)INT14 (+2)Skills Athletics +8 , Intimidation +8Damage Resistances fireWIS12 (+l)Senses darkvision 60 ft ., passive Perception 9Languages Common , Elvish, SylvanCHA18 (+4)Challenge 10 (5 ,900 XP) Proficiency Bonus +4Fearsome Presence. Any non-eladrin creature that starts its turnwithin 60 feet of the eladrin must make a DC 16 Wisdom savingthrow . On a failed save , the creature becomes frightened of theeladrin for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throwat the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on asuccess . If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effectends for it , the creature is immune to any eladrin's FearsomePresence for the next 24 hours .Magic Resistance. The eladrin has advantage on saving throwsagainst spells and other magical effects.ACTIONSMultiattack. The eladrin makes two Longsword or Long-bow attacks .Longsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit , reach 5 ft. , one tar-get. Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) slashing damage, or 15 (2dl0 + 4) slash-ing damage if used with two hands, plus 9 (2d8) fire damage .Longbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +9 to hit , range 150/600ft ., one target . Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) piercing damage plus 9 (2d8)fire damage.BONUS ACTIONSFey Step (Recharge 4-6). The eladrin teleports, along with anyequipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 30 feet to an unoccu·pied space it can see .REACTIONSParry. The eladrin adds 3 to its AC against one melee attackthat would hit it. To do so, the eladrin must see the attackerand be wielding a melee weapon.WINTER ELADRINWhen sorrow distresses eladrin, they enter the win-ter season, becoming figures of melancholy. Frozentears drop from their cheeks , and their palpable sad-ness emanates from them as icy cold.WINTER ELADRINMedium Fey (Elf), Typically Chaotic NeutralArmor Class 19 (natural armor)Hit Points 165 (22d8 + 66)Speed 30 ft .STR11 (+0)DEX16 (+3)CON16 (+3)Damage Resistances coldINT18 (+4)WIS17 (+ 3)Senses darkvision 60 ft ., passive Perception 13Languages Common , El vish , SylvanCHA13 (+l)Challenge 10 (5 ,900 XP) Proficiency Bonus +4Magic Resistance. The eladrin has advantage on saving throwsagainst spells and other magical effects.Sorrowful Presence. Any non-eladrin creature that starts itsturn within 60 feet of the eladrin must make a DC 13 Wisdomsaving throw. On a failed save, the creature becomes charmedby the eladrin for 1 minute. Whi le charmed in this way, thecreature has disadvantage on ability checks and saving throws.The charmed creature can repeat the saving throw at the endof each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Ifa creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it,the creature is immune to any eladrin's Sorrowful Presence forthe next 24 hours .Whenever the eladrin deals damage to the charmed creature,the charmed creature can repeat the saving throw, ending theeffect on itself on a success .ACTIONSMultiattack. The eladrin makes two Longsword or Longbowattacks. It can replace one attack with a use of Spellcasting.Longsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one tar-get. Hit: 4 (ld8) slashing damage, or 5 (ldl0) slashing damageif used with two hands, plus 13 (3d8) cold damage.Longbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, range 150 /600ft., one target. Hit: 7 (ld8 + 3) piercing damage plus 13 (3d8)cold damage.Spellcasting. The eladrin casts one of the fo llo wing spe ll s, re-quiring no material components and using In tel li gence as thespellcast in g ability (spell save DC 16):At wil l:fog cloud, gust of wind, sleet stormBONUS ACTIONSFey Step (Recharge 4-6). The eladrin teleports, along with anyequipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 30 feet to an unoccu-pied space it can see.REACTIONSFrigid Rebuke. When the eladrin takes damage from a creaturethe eladrin can see within 60 feet of it, the eladrin can force thatcreature to make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw. On a failedsave, the creature takes 11 (2dl0) cold damage.ELDER BRAINThe ultimate expression of mind flayer domination,an elder brain sprawls within a vat of viscous brine,cared for by mind flayer minions as it touches thethoughts of creatures near and far. It scrawls uponthe canvas of the creatures' minds, rewriting theirthoughts and authoring their dreams.An elder brain sustains itself by consuming thebrains of other creatures. If its mind flayer servantsdon't bring meals directly to it, the elder brainreaches out with tendrils of thought, compellingcreatures to come to it so that it can feed on them.When a mind flayer perishes, the elder brain'sservants feed its brain to their master, which thenabsorbs the knowledge and experience containedtherein. Mind flayers conceive of this oneness withthe elder brain as a sacred state akin to an afterlife.HIVE MINDElder brains are so-called among non-illithids be-cause they act as the central communication hub foran entire mind flayer colony, just as a brain does fora living body. Linked to the elder brain, the colonyacts like a single organism, acting in concert as ifeach illithid were the digit of a hand.An elder brain considers itself and its desiresthe most important things in the multiverse, andthe mind flayers in its colony nothing more thanextensions of its will. Each presides over its colonyaccording to its own unique personality and store-house of collected knowledge and experience. Someelder brains reign as tyrants , while others serveas sages, counselors , and repositories of informa-tion and lore for the mind flayers that protect andnourish them .AN ELDER BRAIN'S LAIRThe lair of an elder brain lies deep in the heart ofa mind flayer colony. The brain dwells in a dimlyglowing brine pool filled with brackish water in-fused with its vital fluids and psionic energy.An elder brain's ambitions are always temperedby its relative immobility. Although its telepathicsenses can reach for miles, moving anywhere isalways a dangerous proposition. If forced outsideits brine pool, an e lder brain swiftly expires, andtransporting an elder brain in its pool through con-fining and tortuous subterranean tunn els frequentlyprov es difficult or impossible.rr8 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYLAIR ACTIONSOn initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), an el-der brain can take one of the following lair actions;the elder brain can't take the same lair action tworounds in a row:Force Wall. The elder brain casts wall of force.Psionic Anchor. The elder brain targets one crea-ture it can sense within 120 feet of it and anchorsit by sheer force of will. The target must make aDC 18 Charisma saving throw. On a failed save,its speed is reduced to 0, and it can't teleport. Itcan repeat the saving throw at the end of each ofits turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.Psychic Inspiration. The e lder brain targets onefriendly creature it can sense within 120 feet of it.The t arget has a fl ash of inspiration and gains ad-vantage on one attack roll, ability check, or savingthrow it makes before the end of its next turn.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY II9REGIONAL EFFECTSThe territory within 5 miles of an elder brain is al-tered by the creature 's psionic presence, which cre-ates one or more of the following effects:Paranoia. Creatures within 5 miles of an elderbrain feel as if they are being followed, even whenthey' re not.Psychic Whispers. Any creature with which the el-der brain has formed a psychic link hears faint, in-comprehensible whispers in the deepest recessesof its mind. This psychic detritus consists of th e el-ELDER BRAINLarg e Aberration (Mind Flay er) , Typically Lawful EvilArmor Class 10Hit Points 210 (20dl0 + 100)Speed 5 ft., swim 10 ft .STR15 (+2)DEX10 (+ O)CON20 (+5)INT21 (+ S)Saving Throws Int +10 , Wis +9, Cha+ 12WIS19 (+4)CHA24 (+7)Skills Arcana +10, Deception +12 , Insight +14, Intimidation +12,Persuasion +12Senses blindsight 120 ft ., passive Perception 14Languages understands Common, Deep Speech, andUndercommon but can't speak, telepathy 5 milesChallenge 14 (11,500 XP) Proficiency Bonus +5Creature Sense. The elder brain is aware of creatures within5 miles of it that have an Intelligence score of 4 or higher. Itknows the distance and direction to each creature, as well aseach one's Intelligence score, but can't sense anything elseabout it . A creature protected by a mind blank spell , a nondetec-tion spell, or similar magic can't be perceived in this manner.Legendary Resistance (3/Day). lfthe elder brain fails a savingthrow, it can choose to succeed instead .Magic Resistance. The elder brain has advantage on savingthrows against spells and other magical effects .Telepathic Hub. The elder brain can use its telepathy to initiateand maintain telepathic conversations with up to ten creaturesat a time. The elder brain can let those creatures telepathicallyhear each other while connected in this way .ACTIONSTentacle. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 30 ft ., onetarget. Hit : 20 (4d8 + 2) bludgeoning damage. If the target isa Huge or smaller creature, it is grappled (escape DC 15) andtakes 9 (ld8 + 5) psychic damage at the start of each of itsturns until the grapple ends. The elder brain can have up tofour targets grappled at a time.Mind Blast (Recharge 5-6). Creatures of the elder brain 'schoice within 60 feet ofit must succeed on a DC 18 Intelli -gence saving throw or take 32 (5dl0 + 5) psychic damage andbe stunned for l minute. A target can repeat the saving throwat the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself ona succes s.120 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYder brain's stray thoughts commingled with thoseof other creatures to which it is linked.Telepathic Eavesdropping. The elder brain canove rhear any telepathic conversation within 5miles of it. The creature that initiated the tele-pathic conversation makes a DC 18 Wisdomsaving throw when telepathic contact is first es-tablished. If the save is successful , the creatureis aware that something is eavesdropping. Thenature of the eavesdropper isn't revealed.If the elder brain dies, these effects imme-diately end .Spel/casting (Psionics). The elder brain casts one of the follow-ing spells, requiring no spell components and using Intelli-gence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 18) :At will : detect thought s, levitate3/da y: modify memory1/day each : dominate monster, plan e shift (self only)BONUS ACTIONSPsychic Link. The elder brain targets one incapacitated creatureit senses with its Creature Sense trait and establishes a psychiclink with the target. Until the link ends, the elder brain can per-ceive everything the target senses. The target becomes awarethat something is linked to its mind once it is no longer inca -pacitated , and the elder brain can terminate the link at any time(no action required) . The target can use an action on its turnto attempt to break the link, doing so with a successful DC 18Charisma saving throw. On a successful save, the target takes10 (3d6) psychic damage. The link also ends if the target andthe elder brain are more than 5 miles apart. The elder brain canform psychic links with up to ten creatures at a time.Sense Thoughts. The elder brain targets a creature with which ithas a psychic link . The elder brain gains insight into the target'semotional state and foremost thoughts (including worries,loves , and hates) .LEGENDARY ACTIONSThe elder brain can take 3 legendary actions, choosing fromthe options below. It can take only one legendary action at atime and only at the end of another creature's turn. The elderbrain regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn.Break Concentration. The elder brain targets one creaturewithin 120 feet ofit with which it has a psychic link. The elderbrain breaks the creature's concentration on a spell it hascast. The creature also takes 2 (ld4) psychic damage perlevel of the spell.Psychic Pulse. The elder brain targets one creature within 120feet ofit with which it has a psychic link . The target and ene-mies of the elder brain within 30 feet of target take 10 (3d6)psychic damage.Sever Psychic Link_ The elder brain targets one creature within120 feet of it with which it has a psychic link . The elder brainends the link , causing the creature to have disadvantage onall ability checks, attack rolls, and saving throws until the endof the creature's next turn .Tentacle (Costs 2 Actions). The elder brain makes one Tenta-cle attack.ELDER TEMPESTTerrifying storms manifest in the bodies of el-der tempests. Beings carved from clouds, wind,rain, and lightning, elder tempests assume theshape of serpents that slither through the sky.They drown the land beneath them with rainand stab the earth with lances of lightning.Punishing winds scream around them as they fly,feeding the chaos they create.ELDER TEMPESTGargantuan Elemental, Typically NeutralArmor Class 19Hit Points 264 (16d20 + 96)Speed Oft ., fly 120 ft. (hover)STR23 (+ 6)DEX28 (+9)CON23 (+6)Saving Throws Wis +12, Cha + 11INT2 (-4)WIS21 (+ 5)CHA18 (+ 4)Damage Resistances bludgeonin g, piercing, and slashing fromnonmagical attacksDamage Immunities lightning , pois on , thunderCondition Immunities exhaustion , grappled, paralyzed ,petrified, poisoned, prone, restrained, stunnedSenses darkvis ion 60 ft ., passi ve Perc eption 15Languages -Challenge 23 (50, 000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +7Air Form. The tempest can enter a hostile creature's space andstop there. It can move through a space as narrow as 1 inchwide without squeezing.Flyby. The tempest doesn't provoke opportunity attacks whenit flies out of an enemy's reach.Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the tempest fails a savingthrow, it can choose to succeed instead.Living Storm. The tempest is always at the center of a stormld6 + 4 miles in diameter. Heavy precipitation in the form ofeither rain or snow falls there, causing the area to be lightly ob-scured . Heav y rain also extinguishes open flames and imposesdisadvantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hear-ing. In addition, strong winds swirl in the area covered by thestorm. The winds impose disadvantage on ranged attack rolls.They also extinguish open flame s and disperse fog.Siege Monster. The tempest deals double damage to objectsand structures.ACTIONSMultiattack. The tempest makes two Thunderous Slam attacks.Thunderous Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +16 to hit, reach 20 ft. ,one target. Hit: 23 (4d6 + 9) thunder damage.Lightning Storm (Recharge 6) . Each creature within 120 feet ofthe tempest must make a DC 21 Dexterity saving throw, taking27 (6d8) lightning damage on a failed save, or half as muchdamage on a successful one. If a target's saving throw failsby 5 or more, the creature is also stunned until the end of itsnext turn.LEGENDARY ACTIONSThe tempest can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from theoptions below. Only one legendary action option can be usedat a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. Thetempest regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn.Move . The tempest moves up to its s peed .Lightning Strike (Costs 2 Actions). The tempest can cause a boltof lightning to strike a point on the ground anywhere underits storm. Each creature within 5 feet of that point must makea DC 21 Dexterity saving throw, taking 16 (3dl0) lightningdamage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a suc-cessful one.Screaming Gale (Costs 3 Actions). The tempest releases a blastof thunder and wind in a line that is 300 feet long and 20 feetwide. Objects in that area take 22 (4dl0) thunder damage.Each creature there must succeed on a DC 21 Dexterity sav-ing thro w or take 22 (4dl0) thunder damage and be flung upto 60 feet in a direction away from the line. If a thrown targetcollides with an immovable object (such as a wall or floor)or another creature, the target takes 3 (ld6) bludgeoningdamage for every 10 feet it was thrown before impact. If thetarget collides with another creature, that other creature mustsucceed on a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw or take the sameimpact damage and be knocked prone.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 121ELEMENTAL MYRMIDONSElemental myrmidons are Elementals conjured andbound by magic into ritually created suits of platearmor. In this form , they possess no recollection oftheir former existence as free Elementals. They ex-ist only to follow the commands of their creators.AIR ELEMENTAL MYRMIDONMedium Elem ental, Typically NeutralArmor Class 18 (plate)Hit Points 117 (l 8d8 + 36)Speed 30 ft. , fly 30 ft. (hover)STR18 (+4)DEX14 (+2)CON14 (+2)INT9 (-1)WIS10 (+0)CHA10 (+0)Damage Resistances lightning, thunder; bludgeon ing, piercing,and slashing from nonmagical attacksDamage Immunities poisonCondition Immunities paralyzed, petrified , poisoned, proneSenses darkvision 60 ft ., passive Perception l 0Languages Au ran, o ne language of its creator's choiceChallenge 7 (2,900 XP) Proficiency Bonus +3ACTIONSMultiattack. The myrmidon makes three Flail attacks.Flail. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft ., one target.Hit: 8 (ld8 + 4) force damage .Lightning Strike (Recharge 6). The myrmidon makes one Flailattack . On a hit, the target takes an extra 18 (4d8) lightningdamage, and the target mu st succeed on a DC 13 Constitutionsaving throw or be stunned until the end of the myrmidon 'sn ex t turn .122 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY•EARTH ELEMENTAL MYRMIDONMedium El emental, Typica lly NeutralArmor Class 18 (plate)Hit Points 127 (l7d8 + 51)Speed 30 ft.STR18 (+4)DEX10 (+0)CON17 (+3)INT8 (-1)WIS10 (+0)CHA10 (+0)Damage Resistances bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing fromnonmagical attacksDamage Immunities poisonCondition Immunities paralyz ed, petrified , poisoned , proneSenses darkvision 60 ft ., passive Perception 10Languages Terran, one language of it s creator's choiceChallenge 7 (2 ,900 XP) Proficiency Bonus +3ACTIONSMultiattack. The myrmidon makes two Maul attacks .Maul. Mel ee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft ., one target.Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) force damage.Thunderous Strike (Recharge 6). The myrmidon makes oneMaul attack . On a hit, the target takes an extra 22 (4dl0) thun-der damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 14 Strengthsaving throw or be kno c ked prone .FIRE ELEMENTAL MYRMIDONMedium Elemental, Typically NeutralArmor Class 18 (pl ate)Hit Points 123 (19d8 + 38)Speed 40 ft.STR13 (+l)DEX18 (+4)CON15 (+2)INT9 (- 1)WIS10 (+0)CHA10 (+0)Damage Resistances bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing fromnonmagical attacksDamage Immunities fire, poisonCondition Immunities paralyzed , petrified , poisoned, proneSenses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10Languages lgnan , one language of its creator's choiceChallenge 7 (2,900 XP) Proficiency Bonus +3Illumination . The myrmidon sheds bright light in a 20-foot ra-dius and dim light in a 40-foot radius.Water Susceptibility. For every 5 feet the myrmidon moves inl foot or more of water, it takes 2 (l d4) cold damage.ACTIONSMultiattack. The myrmidon makes three Scimitar attacks.Scimitar. Me lee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.Hit: 7 (ld6 + 4) force damage.Fiery Strikes (Recharge 6). The myrmidon uses Multiattack.Each attack that hits deals an extra 7 (2d6) fire damage.WATER ELEMENTAL MYRMIDONMedium El emental, Typically NeutralArmor Class 18 (plate)Hit Points 127 (17d8 + 51)Speed 40 ft., swim 40 ft.STR18 (+4)DEX14 (+2)CON15 (+3)INT8 (-1)WIS10 (+0)CHA10 (+0)Damage Resistances acid ; bludgeoning, piercing, and slash ingfrom nonmagical attacksDamage Immunities poisonCondition Immunities paral yzed, petrified , poisoned , proneSenses darkvision 60 ft ., pass ive Perception 10Languages Aquan, one language of its creator's choiceChallenge 7 (2,900 XP) Proficiency Bonus +3ACTIONSMultiattack. The myrmidon makes three Trident attacks.Trident. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +7 to hit , reach 5 ft.or range 20/60 ft ., one target. Hit : 7 (ld6 + 4) force damage,or 8 (ld8 + 4) force damage if used with two hands to make amelee attack.Freezing Strikes (Recharge 6). The myrmidon uses Multiatta ck .Each attack that hits deal s an extra 5 (ldl0) cold damage. Atarget that is hit by one or more of these attacks ha s its speedreduced by 10 feet until the end of the myrmidon 's next turn.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 123FIRE GIANT DREADNOUGHTHuge Giant, Typically Lawful EvilArmor Class 21 (plate, Dual Shields)Hit Points 187 (l5dl2 + 90)Speed 30 ft.STR27 (+ 8)DEX9 (- 1)CON23 (+6)INT8 (- 1)Saving Throws Dex +4, Con + 11 , Cha +5Skills Athletic s+ 13 , Perception +5Damage Immunities fireSenses passive Perception 15Languages GiantWIS10 (+0)CHA11 (+0)Challenge 14 (11 , 500 XP) Proficiency Bonus +5Dual Shields. The giant carries two shields, which together givethe giant +3 to its AC (accounted for above).ACTIONSMultiattack. The giant makes two Fireshield or Rock attacks.Fireshield. Mel ee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 5 ft., onetarget. Hit: 22 (4d6 + 8) bludgeoning damage plus 7 (2d6) firedamage plus 7 (2d6) piercing damage.Rock. Ranged Weapon Attack: +13 to hit , range 60/240 ft ., onetarget. Hit: 30 (4dl0 + 8) bludgeoning damage .Shield Charge (Recharge 5-6). The giant mo ves up to 30 feet ina straight line and can move through the space of any creatures maller than Huge . The first time it enters a creature's spaceduring this move , that creature must succeed on a DC 21Strength saving throw or take 36 (8d6 + 8) bludgeoning dam-age plus 14 (4d6) fire damage and be pushed up to 30 feet andknocked prone .124 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYFIRE GIANT DREADNOUGHTMost fire giants value not just strength but alsoskill at forgecraft. The foundry is the heart of anyfire giant community. It is a temple, school, provingground, and political hub rolled into one.Those whose primary virtue is brawn are usuallyconsigned to the lowliest of tasks, such as work-ing forge bellows or moving coal. However, thestrongest among these can excel at and gain rankthrough a specialized role: the dreadnought.Dreadnoughts are massively powerful fire giantswho wield two huge shields like plow blades. Theseshields bear spikes on their exterior and have hol-low interiors into which the dreadnought pours hotcoals at the first sign of danger. Armed with thesetwo shields, the dreadnought can present a fierywall to any attacker. When the dreadnought hasfinished, often all that is left of a foe is a smokingsmear on the floor.When not called on to fight, dreadnoughts main-tain their strength by using their shields to shovehuge quantities of coal, stone, or ore a bout thefoundry. Occasionally, dr ea dnoughts are called onby their superiors to accompany a war or diplomaticdelegation and us e their fierce and intimidating de-meanor to strengthen the delegation's position.►FIRE NEWTSOriginally from the Elemental Plane of Fire, fire-newts can be found on the Material Plane near hotsprings and volcanoes. These amphibians need hotwater to live, becoming sluggish after spending aweek away from a source of moist heat. Firenewtstherefore delve for sources of heat in the earth, anda firenewt lair features a network of channels andsluices to circulate hot liquid through the area.FIRENEWT WARLOCK OF lMIXFirenewts who serve Imix, Prince of Evil Fire, livein militaristic theocracies that revere elemental firein its most destructive incarnation and promoteaggression and cruelty. Firenewt warlocks of Imixlead these theocracies or serve as advisors to ahigh priest.FIRENEWT WARRIORA firenewt warrior can spew fire. Many of thesewarriors have a close relationship with giant strid-ers (in this book). They provide shelter, food, andbreeding grounds in their lairs for giant striders,which then voluntarily serve them as mounts.FIRENEWTWARLOCK OF IMIXMedium Elemental, Typically Neutral EvilArmor Class l 0 (13 with rnage armor)Hit Points 33 (6d8 + 6)Speed 30 ft.STR13 (+l)DEX11 (+ 0)CON12 (+l)Damage Immunities fireINT9 (-1)WIS11 (+0)Senses darkvision 120 ft ., passive Perception 10Languages Draconic, lgnanCHA14 (+2)Challenge l (200 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Amphibious. The firenewt can breathe air and water.Devil's Sight. Magical darkness doesn't impede the firenewt'sdarkvision .lmix's Blessing. When the firenewt reduces an enemy to O hitpoints, the firenewt gains 5 temporary hit points.ACTIONSMultiattack. Th e firenewt makes three Morningstar or FireRay attacks.Morningstar. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft. , onetarget. Hit: 5 (ld8 + l) piercing damage.Fire Ray . Ranged Spell Attack: +4 to hit, range 120 ft., one tar-get. Hit: 5 (ld6 + 2) fir e damage.Spellcasting. The fire newt casts one of the fol lowing spe ll s, us -ing Charisma as the spel lc asting ability (spell save DC 12):At wil l: guidance, light, rnage armor, rnage hand, prestidigitationFIRENEWT WARRIORMedium Elemental, Typically NeutralArmor Class 13 (shield)Hit Points 27 (Sd8 + 5)Speed 30 ft.STR10 (+0)DEX13 (+l)CON12 (+l)INT7 (- 2)WIS11 (+0)CHA8 (-1)Damage Immunities fireSenses passive Perception l 0Languages Draconic, lgnanChallenge 1/2 (100 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Amphibious . The firenewt can breathe air and water.ACTIONSMultiattack. The firenewt makes t wo Scimitar attacks.Scimitar. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one tar-get. Hit : 4 (ld6 + l) slash ing damage.Spit Fire (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). The firenewtspits fir e at a creature within 10 feet of it. Th e creatu re mustmake a DC 11 Dexterity sav in g throw, taking 9 (2d8) firedamage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a suc-cessfu l one .CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY I25••FLAIL SNAILA flail snail is a creature of elem en tal eart h that isprized for its multihu ed shell. It may seem harm-less, but if a creat ur e big e nough to be a thr eat ap-proaches too close, the snail fl as h es a scintillatinglight and attacks with its mace-like tentacles.Left undisturb ed, a flail snail moves slowly alongthe ground. It consumes eve rything on the surface,including rocks, sand, and soil, and it stops period-ically to relish crystal growths and oth er larg e min-eral deposits . It leaves behind a shimmering trailthat quickly solidifies into a thin and nearly trans-parent laye r. This glassy residue can be harvestedand cut to form window panes . It can also be h ea tedand spun into other glass objects. Some folk make aliving from trailing flail snails to collect this glass.USING THE SHELL OF A FL A IL SNAILA flail snail shell weighs about 250 pounds and hasnum e rous uses. An intact shell can sell for 5,000 gp.Many hunters seek the shell for its antimagic prop -erties. A skilled armorer ca n make thr ee shieldsfrom one shell. For 1 month, each shield gives itswielder the snail's Antimagic Shell trait. When theshield's magic fades, it beco mes an exotic shieldthat is th e perfect item from which to make a spell-guard shield.A flail snail shell can also be us ed to make arobe of scintillating colors. Th e shell is ground andadded to the dye applied to the fabric. The powderis also a mat erial co mpon ent of the ritu al that e n-chants the robe.126 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYFLAIL SNAILLarge Elem ental, UnalignedArmor Class 16 (natu ral armo r)Hit Points 52 (5dl0 + 25)Speed 10 ft.STR17 (+ 3)DEX5 (- 3)CON20 (+5)Damage Immunities fir e, p oi sonCondition Immunities poiso nedINT3 (- 4)WIS10 (+ 0)•CHA5 (- 3)Senses dar kv ision 60 ft. , tremo rsense 60 ft., pass ive Perce ption 10Languages -Challenge 3 (700 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Antimagic Shell. The snai l has advantage on saving throwsagainst spe ll s, and any creatu re making a spell attack againstthe snai l has disadvantage on the attack roll.If the snail succeeds on its saving throw against a spell or aspe ll 's attack roll misses it, the s nail 's she ll converts some ofthe spe ll 's ene rgy into a burst of destructive force if the spe ll isoflst level or higher; each creature within 30 feet of the sna ilmust make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, taking 3 (ld6)force damage per level of the spell on a failed save, or half asmuch damage on a successful one.ACTIONSMultiattack. The snail makes five Fl ail Tentacle attacks.Flail Tentacle. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit , reach 10 ft. , onetarget. Hit: 5 (ld4 + 3) bludgeoning damage.Scintillating Shell (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest) . Thesnai l's she ll em it s dazzling, colored light until the end of thesnail 's next turn. During this time, the she ll sheds bright ligh tin a 30-foot radius and dim light for an additional 30 feet, andcreatures that can see the sna il have disadvantage on attackroll s against it. In addition, any creature within the bright lightand able to see the snail when this power is activated mustsucceed on a DC 15 Wisdom sav in g throw or be stunned untilthe li ght ends .Shell Defense. The flail sna il withdraws into its shell. Until itemerges, it gains a +4 bonu s to its AC and is restrained . It canemerge from its she ll as a bonus action on it s turn.FLINDWhen the demon lord Yeenoghu (appears inthis book) wants to create a particularly fear-some war band leader, he transforms an excep- 'tionally strong and vicious gnoll into a demonicwarrior known as a flind.A war band of demon-worshiping gnolls typi-cally contains only one flind, and that creaturesets the war band 's path. B eca us e of its special con-nection to Yeenoghu, a flind us es demoni c insight toguide the gnolls toward weak pr ey ripe for slaughter.Unlike other leaders who might s kulk behind theirminions, a flind lea ds the charge in battle. Its flailcauses wracking pain , paralysis, and disorientationin those it strikes.FLINDMedium Fiend (Gno/1), Typically Chaotic EvilArmor Class 16 (breastplate)Hit Points 127 (15d8 + 60)Speed 30 ft.STR20 (+5)DEX14 (+2)CON19 (+4)INT11 (+0)Saving Throws Con +8, Wis +5Skills Int imidate +5, Perception +5WIS13 (+1)Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 15Languages Gnoll , AbyssalCHA12 (+1)Challenge 9 (5,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +4Aura of Blood Thirst. If the flind isn't incapacitated , any crea-ture with the Rampage trait can make a Bite attack as a bonusaction whi le within 10 feet of the flind .ACTIONSMultiattack. The fl ind makes one Flail of Chaos attack, oneFl ai l of Pain attack, and one Flail of Paralysis attack, or it makesthree Longbow attacks.Flail of Chaos. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft. , onetarget. Hit : 10 (ldl0 + 5) bludgeoning damage, and the targetmust make a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save,the target must use its reaction, if available , to make one meleeattack against a random creature, other than the fl ind , withinits reach. If there's no creature within reach, the target insteadmoves half its speed in a random direction.Flail of Pain . Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., onetarget. Hit: 10 (ldl0 + 5) bludgeoning damage plus 16 (3d10)psychic damage.Flail of Paralysis. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft. ,one target. Hit : 10 (ldl0 + 5) bludgeoning damage, and thetarget must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw orbe paralyzed until the end of its next turn .Longbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, range 150/600 ft. ,one target. Hit : 6 (ld8 + 2) piercing damage.l:HAPTRR? I RR~TTARY u,,-,FRAZ-URB'LUUFraz-Urb'luu is the Prince of Deception and DemonLord of Illusions. He uses every trick, every ounceof demonic cunning, to manipulate his enemies -mortal and Fiend alike-to do his will. Fraz -Urb'luucan create dreamlands and mind-bending fantasiesable to deceive the most discerning foes.Once imprisoned for centuries below Castle Grey-hawk on the world of Oerth, Fraz-Urb'luu has slowlyrebuilt his power in the Abyss. He seeks the piecesof the legendary staff of power taken from him bythose who imprisoned him and commands his ser-vants to do likewise.The Prince of Deception's true form is like that ofa great gargoyle, some 12 feet tall, with an extended,muscular neck; a smiling face framed by long,pointed ears and lank, dark hair; and bat-like wingsare furled against his powerful shoulders. He canassume other forms, however, from the hideous tothe beautiful.128 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYMany of the cultists of Fraz-Urb'luu aren't evenaware they serve the Prince of Deception, believingtheir master is a beneficent being and granter ofwishes, some lost god or Celestial, or even anotherFiend. Fraz-Urb'luu wears all these masks andmore. He particularly delights in aiding demon-hunt-ers against his demonic adversaries, driving thehunters to greater and greater atrocities in the nameof their cause, only to eventually reveal his true na-ture and claim their souls as his own.FRAZ-URB'Luu's LAIRFraz-Urb'luu's lair lies within the abyssal realm ofHollow's Heart, a plain of white dust with few struc-tures on it. The lair itself is the city of Zoragmelok,a circular fortress surrounded by adamantine wallstopped with razors and hooks. Corkscrew towersloom above twisted domes and vast amphitheaters,forming a surreal and disorienting cityscape.The challenge rating of Fraz-Urb'luu is 24 (62,000XP) when he's encountered in his lair.LAIR ACTIONSOn initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Fraz-Urb'luu can take one of the following lair actionswhen in his lair; he can't take the same lair actiontwo rounds in a row:Conjure Walls and Doors. Fraz-Urb'luu causesup to five doors within th e lair to become wallsand an equa l number of doors to appear on wallswhere there previously were none.Psychic Anguish. Fraz-Urb'luu creates a wave ofanguish. Each creature he can see within the lairmust succeed on a DC 23 Wisdom saving throwor take 33 (6d10) psychic damage.Simulacrum. Fraz-Urb'luu chooses one Humanoidwithin the lair and instantly creates a simulacrumof that creature (as if created with the simulacrumspell). This simulacrum obeys Fraz-Urb'luu'scommands and is destroyed on the next initia-tive count 20.REGIONAL EFFECTSThe region containing Fraz-Urb'luu's lair is warpedby his magic, creating one or more of the follow-ing effects:FRAZ- URB'LUULarge Fiend (Demon) , Chaotic EvilArmor Class 18 (natural armor)Hit Points 337 (27dl0 + 189)Speed 40 ft., fly 40 ft .STR29 (+9)DEX12 (+l)CON25 (+7)INT26 (+8)WIS24 (+7)Saving Throws De x +8, Con +14, Int +15, Wis +14Skills Deception +15, Perception +14, Stealth +8Damage Resistances cold, fire, lightningCHA26 (+8)Damage Immunities poison ; bludgeoning, piercing, andslashing that is nonmagicalCondition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, frightened,poisonedSenses truesight 120 ft., passive Percepti on 24Languages all, telepathy 120 ft.Challenge 23 (50,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +7Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Fra z- Urb 'luu fails a savingthrow, he can choose to succeed instead .Magic Resistance. Fraz-Urb'luu has advantage on saving throwsagainst spells and other magical effects.Undetectable. Fraz-Urb'luu can't be targeted by divinationmagic, perceived through magical scrying sensors, or detectedby abilities that sense demons or Fiends.•Beguiling Realm. Within 6 miles of the lair, allCharisma (Persuasion) and Wisdom (Insight)checks have disadvantage, and all Charisma (De-ception) and Charisma (Performance) checks haveadvantage.Nostalgic Pangs. Sapient creatures within 1 mileof the lair frequently see hallucinations of long-dead friends and comrades that vanish after only abri ef glimpse.Twisted Paths. Roads and paths within 6 miles ofthe lair twist and turn back on themselves, mak-ing navigation in the area exceedingly difficult.If Fraz-Urb'luu dies, these effects fade over thecourse of ldlO days.CULTISTS OF FRAZ-URB'LUUFraz-Urb'luu grants his cultists the Liar's Eye trait.Liar 's Eye. This creature has advantage on Wisdom (Insight orPerception) checks .As a bonus action, the creature detects the location of all illu-sions and hidden creatures within 15 feet ofit.-•. --s s;;;ss ! ¥ACTIONSMultiattack. Fraz-Urb'luu makes one Bite attack and two Fistattacks, and he uses Phantasmal Terror.Bite. Mel ee Weapon Attack: +16 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target.Hit : 19 (3d6 + 9) force damage .Fist. Melee Weapon Attack: +16 to hit, reach l Oft., one target.Hit : 22 (3d8 + 9) force damage.Phantasmal Terror. Fraz-Urb'luu targets one creature he cansee within 120 feet of him . The target must succeed on a DC23 Wisdom saving throw, or it takes 16 (3dl0) psychic damageand is frightened of Fraz-Urb'luu until the end of its next turn .Spellcasting. Fraz-Urb'luu casts one ofthe following spells,requiring no material components and using Charisma as thespellcasting ability (spell save DC 23):At will : alter self (can become Medium when changing his ap-pearance), detect magic, dispel magic, phantasmal force3/day each: mislead, programmed illusion, seemi ng1/day each: modify memory, project imageLEGENDARY ACTIONSFraz-Urb'luu can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from theoptions below. Only one legendary action option can be usedat a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. Fraz-Urb'luu regains spent legendary actions at the start of his turn.Tail. Melee Weapon Attack:+16 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target.Hit: 20 (2dl0 + 9) force damage. If the target is a Large orsmaller creature, it is also grappled (escape DC 24), and it isrestrained until the grapple ends . Fraz- Urb ' luu can grappleonly one creature with his tail at a time.Terror (Costs 2 Actions). Fraz-Urb'luu uses Phantasmal Terror.t 55-4 5%5 es,s · SiiF- pee =:e -a RM • - -- · iS#S 5Y&#S- iMCH AP T E R 2 I B ESTIA RY 129FROGHEMOTHHuge Mon stros ity , UnalignedArmor Class 14 (natur a l a rmor)Hit Points 161 ( l4dl2 + 70)Speed 30 ft ., sw im 30 ft.STR23 (+ 6)DEX13 (+ l)CON20 (+5)INT2 (- 4)Saving Throws Co n +9, Wis +5Skills Pe rce pti o n +9, St ea lth +5Damage Resistances fi re, lightnin gWIS12 (+ l)Senses d ar kv is io n 60 ft., p as s ive Pe rce pti o n 19Languages -CHA5 (- 3)Challenge 10 (5,9 00 XP) Proficiency Bonus +4Amphibious. The froghemoth can breathe air and water.Shock Susceptibility. If the froghemoth takes lightning damage,it suffers two effects until the end of its next turn: its speed ishalved , and it has disadvantage on Dexterity saving throws .ACTIONSMultiattack. The froghemoth makes one Bite attack and twoTentacle attacks , and it can use Tongue .Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit , reach 5 ft., one target.Hit: 22 (3dl0 + 6) piercing damage, and the target is swallowedif it is a Medium or smaller creature . A swal lo wed creature isblinded and restrained , has total cover aga inst attacks andother effects outside the froghemoth , and takes 10 (3d6) aciddamage at the start of each of the froghemoth 's turns.The froghemoth's gullet can hold up to two creatures at atime. If the froghemoth takes 20 damage or more on a singleturn from a creature inside it , the froghemoth must succeed ona DC 20 Constitution saving throw at t he end of that turn or re-gurgitate all swallowed creatures, each of which falls prone in aspace within 10 feet of the froghemoth. If the froghemoth dies,any swa llowed creature is no lon ger restrained by it and can es-cape from the corpse using 10 feet of movement , exiting prone.Tentacle. Melee Weapon Attack:+10 to hit, reach 20 ft., onetarget. Hit: 19 (3d8 + 6) bludgeoning damage, and t he target isgrappled (escape DC 16) ifit is a Huge or sma ll er creature. Un-til the grapp le ends, the froghemoth can't use this tentacle onanother target. Th e froghemoth has four tentacles.Tongue. The froghemoth targets one Medium or s mallercreature that it can see within 20 feet of it . The target mustmake a DC 18 Strength saving throw . On a fai led save, thetarget is pulled into an unoccup ied space within 5 feet of thefroghemoth .130 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYFROGHEMOTHA froghemoth is an amphibious predator as big asan elephant. It l airs in swa mps and h as four tenta-cles, a thi ck rubbery hide, a fang-filled maw with apr ehensile tongue, an d a n extendable s talk sportingthr ee bulbous eyes that face in different dir ections.Froghemoths are cr eatures not of this world. Ajournal purportedly written long ago by the wizardLum d esc rib es st ra ng e, cylindri ca l chambers ofmetal buried in the ground from which froghemothsemerged, but no reliable r epo rts of the lo ca tion ofsuch pla ces exist.Every few years, a froghemoth ca n lay a fer-tile egg without mating. The fro ghe moth caresnothing for its egg an d might eat the hat chling. Ayoung froghemoth's survival thus depends on itspa re nt leaving it behind in indiffere nce. A new -born frogh emot h grows to full size ov er a periodof months by indiscriminately pr eying on othercreatures in its swampy domain. It learn s to hideits eno rmous body in murky pools, keeping only itseyestalk above water to watch for passing creatures.Wh e n food co me s within reach , the froghe motherupts from its pool, tentacles and tongue flailing. Itcan grab several targets at once; it wraps its tonguearound one and pulls it in to be devoured while hold-ing the r est at bay.If bullywugs (see the Monster Manual) comeacross a froghemoth , th e bullywugs may treat thefroghe moth as a god and do all they ca n to coax themonster into their den. A froghemoth can be tamed(after a fashion) by offering it food , and bullywugscan co mmunicat e with it on a b as ic level, so thecr ea tur e might eat only a few bullywugs beforefollowing the rest. The bullywugs gather food astribute for it, provide it with a comfo rt a bl e lair, pro-tect it from harm , an d try to ens ure that any of itsoffspring r eac h maturity.FROST GIANTEVERLASTING ONETo hold its place or rise within the ordning, a frostgiant must routinely face mighty foes in single com-bat. Some seek out magic that will aid them, but en-chanted objects can be taken or lost. True greatnessrelies on personal prowess. Faced with this truth, afrost giant might seek a supernatural gift from Va-prak the Destroyer.Vaprak is a ferocious god of strength and hungeralso worshiped by some ogres and trolls. He likes totempt frost giants with dreams of glory followed bynightmares of bloody cannibalism. Those who don'tshrink from such visions or report them to priestsof Thrym receive more of the same. If a frost giantcomes to relish these dreams and nightmares, assome do, Vaprak sets a troll upon a sacred quest tofind the frost giant and meet the giant in secret. Thetroll offers up its own body to be devoured in Va-prak's name. Only the boldest and most determinedfrost giants can finish such a gory feast.After devouring the troll sent by Vaprak, bonesand all, a frost giant becomes an everlasting one,gaining tremendous strength, an ill temper, and atroll's regenerative ability. With these gifts, the frostgiant can swiftly claim the title of jar! and easi lyfend off rivals for decades. However, if the frostgiant doesn't give enough honor to Vaprak or failsto heed Vaprak's visions, injuries the frost giant sus-tains heal wrong, resulting in discolored skin; wartyscars; and vestigial body parts, such as extra digits,limbs, and even heads. The touch of Vaprak can nolonger be hidden then, and the everlasting one is ei-ther killed or exiled by their clan. Sometimes smallcommunities of everlasting ones gather and evenreproduce, passing the "blessing" and worship ofVaprak from one generation to the next.FROST GIANT EVERLASTING ONEHuge Gian t, Typ ically Chaotic EvilArmor Class 15 (patchwork armor)Hit Points 189 (l4dl2 + 98)Speed 40 ft .STR25 (+7)DEX9 (-1)CON24 (+7)INT9 (-1)Saving Throws Str +11 , Con +11 , Wis +4,Skills Athletics + ll , Perception +4Damage Immunities coldWIS CHA10 (+0) 12 (+l)Senses darkvis ion 60 ft ., pass ive Perception 14Languages Gi antChallenge 12 (8 ,400 XP) Proficiency Bonus +4Extra Heads. The giant has a 25 percent chance of havingmore than one head. lfit has more than one, it has advantageon Wisdom (Perception) checks and on saving throws againstbeing blinded , charmed, deafened, frightened, stunned, orknocked unconscious.Regeneration. The giant regains 10 hit points at the start of itsturn . If the giant takes acid or fire damage, this trait doesn'tfunction at the start of its next turn. The giant dies only ifitstarts its turn with 0 hit points and doesn 't regenerate.ACTIONSMultiattack. The giant makes two Greataxe or Rock attacks.Greataxe. Melee Weapon Attack: +ll to hit, reach 10 ft., onetarget. Hit: 26 (3dl2 + 7) slashing damage, or 30 (3dl2 + 11)slashing damage while raging.Rock. Ranged Weapon Attack: +ll to hit, range 60 /2 40 ft., onetarget. Hit: 29 (4dl 0 + 7) bludgeoning damage.BONUS ACT I ONVaprak's Rage (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest) . Thegiant enters a rage . The rage lasts for l minute or until thegiant is incapacitated. While raging, the giant gains the follow-ing benefits:• The giant has advantage on Strength checks and Strengthsaving throws .• When it makes a melee wea pon attack, th e giant gai ns a +4bonus to the damage roll.• The giant ha s resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, and slash-ing damage.r.HAPTFR? I RF.',TTARYFROST SALAMANDERFrost salamanders are natives of the Plane of Ice,also called the Frostfell, which rests b etwee n th ePlane of Air an d the Plane of Water. Frost sa lam an-de rs es pecially like to hunt warm-blooded crea tur es .They so metim es travel to frigid climes on the Mate-rial Pl a ne by wandering through pla nar gates.Fro st salamanders' aggress ive appetite for anyh ea t so urce lea ds them to attack expeditions andse ttl eme nts that other pred ators would avoid, asthey often mi sta ke the fire of a forge or a cam pfirefor a large, tasty m ea l. Azers (see th e Monster Man-ual) use this predilection to hunt frost salamand ers.Venturing into the Frostfell, they us e larg e fires tolure th ese creatures into traps, th en kill them andcollect their hides and fangs for us e in craftingweapons and armor.Although frost salamanders can burrow their waythrough loose soil, th ey pr efer to dig into ice. Theyroll around in piles of broken chunks of ic e, allow-ing it to scratch their backs as they grind it down.This habit lea ds them to create extensive net worksof ice caves, which b ec om e ever larger as they clawfre sh c hunks of ice from the walls of their lairs.A frost salamander that dwells in a lair for a whileca rv es out enough space to allow a small army toca mp within. Inexperienced travelers who co meacross these caves see th em as a welcome shelter,though they are anything but. Frost salamandersgreedily devour any pr ey foolhardy enough to trysleep ing in th eir lairs.On rare occasions, frost giants (see th e MonsterManual) capture and tame these crea tur es, usingthem to burrow into the ice to help crea te outpostsand fortresses.132 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYFROST SALAMANDERHuge Elemental, Unali gnedArmor Class 17 (natural armor)Hit Points 168 (16dl2 + 64)Speed 60 ft ., burrow 40 ft., climb 40 ft .STR20 (+5)DEX12 (+l)CON18 (+4)Saving Throws Con +8, Wis +4Skills Perception +4Damage Vulnerabilities fireDamage Immunities coldINT7 (- 2)WIS11 (+0)CHA7 (-2)Senses darkvision 60 ft., tremorsense 60 ft ., pa ssive Perception 14Languages PrimordialChallenge 9 (5 ,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +4Burning Fury . When the sa lamander takes fire damage, itsFreezing Breath automatically recharges .ACTIONSMultia tt ack. Th e salamander makes one Bite attac k and fourClaw attacks .Bi te. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 15 ft. , one target.H it: 9 (l d8 + 5) piercing damage plus 5 (ldl0) cold damage.Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target.H it: 8 (1 d6 + 5) piercing damag e.Free z in g Bre a th (Recharge 6). Th e salamander exhales chillwind in a 60-foot cone. Each creature in that area must m ake aDC 17 Constitution saving throw, taking 44 (8d l 0) co ld damageon a fai led save, or ha lf as much damage on a successfu l one.GAUTHMedium Aberration (Beholder), Typically Lawful EvilArmor Class 15 (natural armor)Hit Points 52 (7d8 + 21)Speed Oft ., fly 20 ft. (h o ver)STR10 (+0)DEX14 (+ 2)CON16 (+3)INT15 (+2)Saving Throws Int +5, Wi s +5 , Cha +4Skills Perc eption +5Condition Immunities pro neWIS15 (+ 2)Senses dar kvis io n 120 ft ., passive Pe rce p tio n 15Languages D eep Sp eech, Un d erco m mo nCHA13 (+l )Challenge 6 (2,300 XP) Proficiency Bonus +3Stunning Gaze. When a creature that can see the gauth's cen-tral eye starts its turn within 30 feet ofthe gauth, the gauth canforce it to make a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw if the gauth isn'tincapacitated and can see the creature . A creature that fails thesave is stunned until the start of its next turn.Unless surprised , a creature can avert its eyes at the startof its turn to avoid the saving throw. If the creature does so, itcan't see the gauth until the start of its next turn , when it canavert its eyes again . If the creature looks at the gauth in themeantime , it must immediately make the save.Death Throes. When the gauth dies, the magical energy withinit explodes, and each creature within 10 feet of it must make aDC 14 Dexterity saving throw, taking 13 (3d8) force damage ona failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.ACTIONSBite. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit , reach 5 ft. , one target.Hit: 9 (2d8) piercing damage.Eye Rays. The gauth shoots three of the following magical eyerays at random (roll three d6s, and reroll duplicates) , targetingone to three creatures it can see within 120 feet ofit:l: Devour Magic Ray. The target must succeed on a DC 14Dexterity saving throw or have one of its magic items lose allmagical properties until the start of the gauth's next turn. Ifthe object is a charged item, it also loses l d4 charges. Deter-mine the affected item randomly, ignoring single-use itemssuch as potions and scrolls.2: Enervation Ray. The target must make a DC 14 Constitutionsaving throw , taking 18 (4d8) necrotic damage on a failedsave, or half as much damage on a successful one .3: Fire Ray . The target must succeed on a DC 14 Dexterity sav-ing throw or take 22 (4dl0) fire damage.4: Paralyzing Ray. The target must succeed on a DC 14 Consti-tution saving throw or be paralyzed for l minute. The targetcan repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns,ending the effect on itself on a success .5: Pushing Ray. The target must succeed on a DC 14 Strengthsaving throw or be pushed up to 15 feet away from the gauthand have its speed halved until the start of the gauth 'snext turn .6: Sleep Ray. The target must succeed on a DC 14 Wisdomsaving throw or fall asleep and remain unconscious for lminute. The target awakens if it takes damage or anothercreature takes an action to wake it. This ray has no effect onConstructs and Undead .GAUTHA ga uth is a hungry, tyrannical cre atur e similar toa beholder that e ats magic a nd tries to exact tributefrom an y thing weaker than itse lf. Its body is about4 fee t in dia meter, with six eye st a lk s, a ce ntral eye(sometimes surrounded by multiple s mall er eyes),a nd four small grasping tentacles n ea r its mouth.It has color and texture variations s imilar to atrue beholder.A gauth can survive on meat but pr efe rs to sustainitself with power drained from magic obj ects. Ifstarv ed of magic for several w ee ks , it is forced backto its hom e plane , so it constantly se eks new itemsto drain. A gauth might employ cre atur es to bring ititems that can provide it with sust e nan ce.When the ritual to summon a sp ec tator goeswrong , a gauth might push itself through the flawedconn ection, arriving immediat e ly or sev eral minuteslater. It might present itself as a beholder to ignorantcreatur es in an attempt to intimidate th em , or as aspectator to its summoner in order to drain magicitems it is expected to guard.A beholder (see the Monster Manual) usuallydrives away or kills any gauths that enter its terri-tory, but it might choose to force them to serve it aslieutenants . Gauths are less xenophobic than be-holde rs , so they might form small clusters and worktogether, though they' re just as like ly to ignore eachother entirely.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 133GAZERA gazer is a tiny manifestation of the dreams of abeholder. It resembles the beholder who dreamed itinto existence, but its body is only 8 inches wide andit has only four eyestalks. It follows its creator likea devoted, aggressive puppy, and sometimes smallpacks of these creatures patrol their master 's lairfor vermin to kill and lone creatures to harass .A gazer can 't speak any languages but can ap-proximate words and sentences it hears, mimickingthem in a high-pitched, mocking manner. Beholdersfind gazers amusing and tolerate their presence likespoiled pets. Some beholders with wizard minionsinsist they take a gazer as a familiar because the be-holders can see through the eyes of these creatures .A wild gazer (one living separately from a be-holder) is territorial, eats bugs and little animals ,and is known for playing with its food. A lone wildgazer avoids picking fights with creatures that areMedium or larger, but a pack of them might take onlarger prey. A gazer might follow the folk in its ter-ritory, noisily mimicking their speech and generallybeing a nuisance, until they leave the area, but itflees if confronted by something it can't kill.VARIANT: GAZER FAMILIARSpellcasters who are interested in unusual familiarsfind that gazers are eager to serve someone whohas magical power. Unless its master is strict , agazer familiar can be unruly, behaving aggressivelytoward other Tiny creatures . A gazer serving as afamiliar has the following trait:Familiar. The gazer can serve another creature as a familiar,forming a telepathic bond with its willing ma ster, provided thatthe master is at least a 3rd-level spellcaster. While the two a rebonded , the ma ster can sense what the gazer senses as long asthey are within l mile of each other. If it s ma ster cau ses it phy s-ical harm, the gazer will end it s service as a familiar, breakingthe telep athic bond.134 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYGAZERTiny Aberration (Beholder) , Typically Neutral EvilArmor Class 13Hit Points 13 (3d4 + 6)Speed Oft., fly 30 ft . (hover)STR3 (- 4)DEX17 (+3)Saving Throws Wis +2CON14 (+2)Skills Perception +4, Stealth +5Condition Immunities proneINT3 (-4)WIS10 (+ 0)Senses dark vision 60 ft. , pass ive Perception 14Languages-CHA7 (-2)Challenge 1/ 2 (100 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Mimicry. The gazer can mimic simple sounds of speech it hasheard, in any language. A creature that hears the sounds cantell they are imitations with a successful DC 10 Wisdom (In-sight) check.ACTIONSBite. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft ., one target.Hit: l piercing damage.Eye Rays. The gazer shoots two of the following magical eyerays at random (roll two d4s, and reroll duplicates), choosingone or two targets it can see within 60 feet of it:1: Dazing Ray . The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 12Wisdom saving throw or be charmed until the start of thegazer's next turn . While the target is charmed in this way , itsspeed is halved, and it has disadvantage on attack rolls.2: Fear Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 12Wisdom saving throw or be frightened until the start of thegazer's next turn.3: Frost Ray. The target must succeed on a DC 12 Dexterity sav-ing throw or take 10 (3d6) cold damage.4: Telekinetic Ray . If the target is a creature that is Medium orsmaller, it must succeed on a DC 12 Strength saving throwor be moved up to 30 feet directly away from the gazer. If thetarget is a Tiny object that isn 't being worn or carried , thegazer moves it up to 30 feet in any direction. The gazer canalso exert fine control on objects with this ray , such as ma-nipulating a simple tool or opening a container.BONUS ACTIONSAggressive. The gazer moves up to it s s peed toward a hostilecreature that it can see.GERYONGeryon is locked in an endless struggle with Levis-tus for control of Stygia. The two have fought forcenturies, each displacing the other innumerabletimes. Currently, Levistus claims lordship over Sty-gia, but he has been trapped in an enormous blockof ice at the command of Asmodeus. In response ,Geryon is marshaling his followers, hoping to usethis opportunity to replace his hated rival.Among the archdevils, Geryon is known for hismartial prowess. He is a ferocious hunter and a re-lentless tracker. He often joins his troops in battle;he loves to feel flesh and steel sundered beneathhis claws and to taste his foes' blood. Yet Geryon'sferocity has also limited his ability to collect soulsand forge an effective hierarchy. Sages who studythe Nine Hells believe the battle for control of Stygiais a test staged by Asmodeus in hopes of purging theworst impulses from both Geryon and Levistus-ordiscovering a competent replacement for both.GERYON's LAIRGeryon has recently reclaimed his ancient fortress,Coldsteel, a sprawling complex that rises from theicy center of Stygia. He roams the passages, spittingoaths of vengeance against Asmodeus and hatchingschemes to reclaim his standing from Levistus.The challenge rating of Geryon is 23 (50,000 XP)when he's encountered in his lair.LAIR ACTIONSOn initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Geryoncan take one of the following lair actions; he can'ttake the same lair action two rounds in a row:Banish. Geryon casts the banishment spell.Chill Blast. Geryon causes a blast of cold to burstfrom the ground at a point he can see within 120feet of him. The cold fills a cube, 10 feet on eachside, centered on that point. Each creature in thatarea must succeed on a DC 21 Constitution savingthrow or take 28 (8d6) cold damage.Hateful Restraints. Geryon targets one creaturehe can see within 60 feet of him. The target mustsucceed on a DC 21 Wisdom saving throw or be-CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 135come restrained for 1 minute. The target can endthe effect on itself if it deals any damage to one ormore of its allies.REGIONAL EFFECTSThe region containing Geryon's lair is warped by hismagic, creating one or more of the following effects:Chilling Wind. Freezing strong winds howl aroundthe area within 1 mile of the lair.Enervating Screams. Howls and screams fill theair within 1 mile of the lair. Any creature thatfinishes a short or long rest in this area must suc-ceed on a DC 21 Wisdom saving throw or deriveno benefit from the rest.Hellish Doorways. Sapient creatures within 1 mileof the lair frequently see shimmering portals lead-ing to places they consider safe. Passing througha portal always deposits a traveler somewherein Stygia.If Geryon dies, these effects fade over the course ofldlO days.j ⇒GERYONHuge Fiend (Devil), Lawful EvilArmor Class 19 (natural armor)Hit Points 300 (24dl2 + 144)Speed 30 ft ., fly SO ft .STR29 (+9)DEX17 (+3)CON22 (+6)INT19 (+4)WIS16 (+3)Saving Throws Dex+ 10 , Con +13, Wis +l 0, Cha +13CHA23 (+6)Skills Deception +13 , Intimidation +13 , Perception +10Damage Resistances bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing fromnonmagical attacks that aren't silveredDamage Immunities cold , fire , poisonCondition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, frightened ,poisonedSenses truesight 120 ft ., passive Perception 20Languages all , telepathy 120 ft.Challenge 22 (41 ,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +7Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Geryon fails a saving throw, hecan choose to succeed instead.Magic Resistance. Geryon has advantage on saving throwsagainst spells and other magical effects .Regeneration. Geryon regains 20 hit points at the start of histurn. If he takes radiant damage, this trait doesn't function atthe start of his next turn. Geryon dies only if he starts his turnwith 0 hit points and doesn 't regenerate.ACTIONSMultiattack. Geryon makes one Claw attack and oneStinger attack.Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +16 to hit, reach 15 ft ., one target.Hit: 23 (4d6 + 9) cold damage. If the target is Large or smaller,•CULTISTS OF GERYONGeryon grants his cultists special abilities. Membersof his cult can gain the Crushing Blow trait. Cultleaders can also gain the Indomitable Strength trait.Crushing Blow (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). As a bo-nus action , the creature gains a bonus to the damage roll of itsnext melee weapon attack roll that hits within the next minute.The bonus equals its Strength modifier (minimum of +l).Indomitable Strength (Recharge 5-6). As a reaction when thiscreature takes damage, it can roll a dl0 and subtract the num-ber rolled from the damage.VARIANT: SOUND THE HORNGeryon can have an action that allows him to sum-mon minotaurs.Sound the Horn (1/Day). Geryon blows his horn , which causesSd4 minotaurs (see the Monster Manual) to appear in unoccu-pied spaces of his choice within 600 feet of him. The minotaursroll initiative when they appear, and they obey his commands .They remain until they die or Geryon uses an action to dismissany or all of them .S- Sh:::-, #:i±W4it is grappled (DC 24), and it is restrained until the grappleends. Geryon can grapple one creature at a time. If the target isalready grappled by Geryon, the target takes an extra 27 (6d8)cold damage.Stinger. Melee Weapon Attack:+16 to hit, reach 20 ft., onecreature. Hit : 14 (2d4 + 9) force damage, and the target mustsucceed on a DC 21 Constitution saving throw or take 13 (2dl2)poison damage and become poisoned until it finishes a shortor long rest. The target's hit point maximum is reduced by anamount equal to half the poison damage taken. This reductionlasts until the poisoned condition is removed. The target dies ifits hit point maximum is reduced to 0.Spellcasting. Geryon casts one of the following spells, requiringno material components and using Charisma as the spellcast-ing ability (spell save DC 21) :At will: alter self (can become Medium when changing hisappearance), detect magic, ice storm, invisibility (self only),locate object, suggestion , wall of ice1/day: banishmentTeleport. Geryon teleports, along with any equipment he iswearing and carrying, up to 120 feet to an unoccupied spacehe can see.LEGENDARY ACTIONSGeryon can take 3 legendary actions , choosing from the op-tions below. Only one legendary action option can be used ata time and only at the end of another creature 's turn. Geryonregains spent legendary actions at the start of his turn .Infernal Glare. Geryon targets one creature he can see within60 feet of him . The target must succeed on a DC 23 Wisdomsaving throw or become frightened of Geryon until the end ofits next turn .Teleport. Geryon uses Teleport.Swift Sting (Costs 2 Actions). Geryon makes one Stinger attack.tf 54 ---s;; SBS S · ., ;;;;;;;; - • Si#9e8i# - f ±5 St&& § ±+fiJ136 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYGIANT STRIDERLarge Elemental, UnalignedArmor Class 14 (natural armor)Hit Points 22 (3dl0 + 6)Speed SO ft.STR18 (+4)DEX13 (+l)CON14 (+2)Damage Immunities fireSenses passive Perception 11Languages-Challenge l (200 XP)INT4 (-3)WIS12 (+l)CHA6 (-2)Proficiency Bonus +2Fire Absorption. Whenever the giant strider is subjected to firedamage, it takes no damage and regains a number of hit pointsequal to half the fire damage dealt.ACTIONSBite. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft ., one target.Hit: 8 (ld8 + 4) piercing damage.Fire Burst (Recharge 5-6). The giant strider hurls a gout offl;;me at a point it can see within 60 feet of it. Each creature ina 10-foot-radius sphere centered on that point must make aDC 12 Dexterity saving throw, taking 14 (4d6) fire damage on afailed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Thefire spreads around corners , and it ignites flammable objects inthat area that aren't being worn or carried.GIANT STRIDERThese fierce and majestic monsters exhibit attri-butes of both birds and reptiles, but are truly nei-ther. Giant striders have a supernatural affinity tofire and can spit gouts of flame at distant enemies.They are most often found in tropical, volcani-cally active areas or regions that similarly providesources of both water and e xtr eme heat.Firenewts prize giant strid e rs and se ek to adoptthem wh enever possible. Th ey provide for stables ofthese creatur es in th eir lairs , and in return, the gi-ant striders voluntarily serve as mounts for firene wtwarriors (in this book). ICHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 137GIFFMedium Humanoid, Any AlignmentArmor Class 16 (breastplate)Hit Points 60 (8d8 + 24)Speed 30 ft .STR18 (+ 4)DEX14 (+ 2)CON17 (+3 )Senses pa s si ve Pe rce ption 11Languages Commo nChallenge 3 (700 XP)INT11 (+ 0)WIS12 (+l )CHA12 (+l)Proficiency Bonus +2Firearms Know le dg e. The giff's mastery of its weapons enablesit to ignore the load ing property of muskets and pistols.Headfi rs t Cha rge . The giff can try to knock a creature over;if the giff moves at least 20 feet in a straight li ne and endswit h in 5 feet of a Large or sma ll er creature, that creat ure mustsucceed on a DC 14 Strength saving throw or take 7 (2d6) bl ud-geon ing damage and be knocked prone.ACTIONSMu ltiattack. The giff makes two Longsword , Musket , or Pis-tol attacks .Longsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one tar-get. Hit: 8 (ld8 + 4) slashing damage, or 9 (l dl0 + 4) slas hingdamage if used with two han d s.Mus ke t. Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, range 40/120 ft., oneta rget. H it: 8 (l dl 2 + 2) piercing damage.Pisto l. Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, range 30/90 ft ., onetarget. Hit: 7 (l dl0 + 2) piercing damage.Fragmentati on Gre nade (1/ Da y) . The giff throws a grenade upto 60 feet , and the grenade exp lodes in a 20-foot-radius sphere.Each creature in that area must make a DC 15 Dexterity savingthrow, tak ing 17 (Sd6) piercing damage on a failed save, or ha lfas much damage on a successfu l one .138 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYGIFFIt's easy to spot giff in a room: these burly fo lk are7-foot-tall, hippopotamus-headed people. In Wild-space and the associated ports , giff are most oftene ncountered as spacefaring mercenaries. Thesetroops are renowned for their martial training andlove of explosives and are typically armed withgleaming pistols and muskets. The stat block hererepr e sents one of those mercenaries.Every aspect of these spacefaring giff's societyis organized along military lines. From birth untildeath , each has a military rank. Promotions don'tdepend on age but are granted by a superior as a re-ward for valor.Muske ts and grenades are th e specialties of manygiff regiments. The bigger the boom, the brighterthe flash, and the thicker the smok e it produces, thegreat er the glory for the one wielding the weapon.Giff mercenaries have been known to accept pay-ment in kegs of gunpowder in preference to gold,gems, or other currency.GUNPOWDER BY THE KEGIn addition to their personal gunpowder weapons ,giff ships and mercenary companies carry sparegunpowder in kegs. In an emergency, or if a largeexplosion is needed, a whole keg can be detonated.A giff lights the fuse on the keg and can then throwthe keg up to 15 feet as part of the same action. Thekeg explodes at the start of the giff's next turn. Eachcreature within 20 feet of th e exploding keg mustmake a DC 12 Dexterity saving throw. On a failedsave, a creature takes 24 (7d6) fire damage and isknocked prone. On a successful save, a creaturetakes half as much damage and isn't knocked prone.Every other keg of gunpowder within 20 feet ofan exploding keg has a 50 percent chance of alsoexploding. Check each keg only once per turn , nomatter how many other kegs explode around it.GIRALLONLarge Monstrosity, UnalignedArmor Class 13Hit Points 59 (7dl0 + 21)Speed 40 ft., climb 40 ft .STR18 (+4)DEX16 (+3)CON16 (+ 3)Skills Perception +5, Stea lth +5INT5 (-3)WIS12 (+l)Senses darkvision 60 ft ., passive Perception 15Languages -CHA7 (-2)Challenge 4 (1 ,100 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2ACTIONSMultiattack. The girallon makes one Bite attack and fourClaw attacks.Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature.Hit : 7 (ld6 + 4) piercing damage.Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target.Hit : 7 (ld6 + 4) slashing damage .BONUS ACTIONSAggressive. The girallon moves up to its speed toward a hostilecreature that it can see.GIRALLONA girallon looks like an oversized, four-armed apewith grayish-tan skin and white fur. Its vicious fangsand claws reveal it to be a monstrous predator.Girallons are most common in temperate or warmforest environments abundant with life. They shareapes' adeptness at climbing, although few trees cansupport the weight of thes e half-ton creatures. Theruins of cities, especially those found in deep forestsand jungles, seem to attract girallons. They see acity's buildings as a superior sort of forest whoseuppermost "branches" can safely support them. Thecreatures can easily scale walls and battlements,and they perch on tower tops and other high van-tages to keep an eye on the surrounding area.When girallons can't climb, they stalk the forestfloor, lurk in narrow ravines or shallow caves, orhide in ruined sites while waiting for prey to comenear. A girallon is surprisingly stealthy, consideringits size and its lack of camouflage.Girallons form loose bands of several individualsand their offspring, usually led by a dominant adultthat also tends to be the oldest member of the group.When on the hunt away from their lair, girallonsuse roars and body language to communicate withone another over distance. Each individual typicallyhunts alone and widely separated from the othersto ensure that everyone gets adequate fodder. Theleader might organize members to work together tomake a big kill, however. If they succeed, everyonein the group shares the spoils, with the best partsgoing to those caring for their young.Girallons' strange appearance and attractionto ruins lead sages to believe they were createdthrough magic to serve as guardians for some lostempire. When that empire fell ages ago, girallonsturned feral and spread out across the world.Numerous creatures have tried to tame, subju-gate, or cooperate with the monsters. For instance ,some forest-dwelling peoples capture girallons andtrain them to serve as sentinels. Recognizing thatgirallons are peaceful among their own kind, otherfolk have learned how to approach a group's leader,offering food and other gifts in hopes of establishingan alliance with the creatures.Girallons that are well treated might be willing toserve as guards, though they lack the intelligenceto take on tasks more complicated than attackingstrangers who enter their domain. A girallon that'scaptured when young and carefully trained couldend up in a seemingly unlikely place, such as guard-ing the entrance to a city's thieves' guild. Those whowould keep a girallon must always be wary, how-ever, becaus e the creature could revert to its preda-tory nature at any time.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 139GITHYANKIGithyanki descend from an ancient people whowere also the progenitors of githzerai (also in thisbook). These tall, gaunt folk have potent psionicpowers and dwell, for the most part, on the AstralPlane. Among the best-known githyanki are thebellicose followers of the Lich Queen Vlaakith . Theyterrorize the Astral Plane, raiding into other planesto plunder the multiverse of its magic and riches.GITHYANKI GISHGish blend their magical abilities with swordplay tobecome dangerous foes in battle. Their specializedcapabilities make them well suited for assassina-tion, raiding, and espionage.GITHYANKI GISHMedium Humanoid (Gith, Wizard) , Any AlignmentArmor Class 17 (half plate)Hit Points 130 (20d8 + 40)Speed 30 ft.STR17 (+3)DEX15 (+2)CON14 (+2)INT16 (+3)Saving Throws Con +6, Int +7, Wis +6Skills Insight +6, Perception +6, Stealth +6Senses passive Perception 16Languages GithWIS15 (+2)CHA16 (+ 3)Challenge 10 (5 ,900 XP) Proficiency Bonus +4ACTIONSMultiattack. The githyanki makes three Longsword or Teleki-netic Bolt attacks, or it makes one of those attacks and usesSpellcasting.Longsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft. , one tar-get. Hit: 7 (ld8 + 3) slashing damage, or 8 (ldl0 + 3) slashingdamage if used with two hands, plus 22 (5d8) psychic damage.Telekinetic Bolt. Ranged Spell Attack: +7 to hit, range 720 ft.,one target. Hit: 28 (8d6) force damage.Spellcasting (Psionics). The githyanki casts one of the followingspells, requiring no spell components and using Intelligence asthe spellcasting ability (spell save DC 15):At will: light, mage hand (the hand is invisible), message3/day each : fireba/1, invisibility, nondetection (self only)7/day each: dimension door, plane shift, teiekinesisBONUS ACTIONSAstral Step (Recharge 4-6). The githyanki teleports , along withany equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 30 feet to an un -occupied space it can see.140 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY•GITHYANKI KITH'RAKMilitarized githyanki cultures assign ranks andresponsibilities to citizens. Groups of ten warriorsfollow the commands of sarths (githyanki warriors;see the Monster Manual), while ten sarths obey thecommands of a mighty kith'rak. These championsundergo torturous training and psionic testing untilthey can command the respect of their underlings.GITHYANKI SUPREME COMMANDERSupreme commanders lead armies, each one com-manding ten kith'raks, who in turn lead the rest oftheir forces . Most supreme commanders ride reddragons (see the Monster Manual) into battle.GITHYANKI KITH'R'.AKMedium Humanoid (Gith), Any AlignmentArmor Class 18 (plate)Hit Points 180 (24d8 + 72)Speed 30 ft.STR18 (+4)DEX16 (+3)CON17 (+3)INT16 (+3)Saving Throws Con +7 , Int +7, Wis +6Skills Intimidation +7, Perception +6Senses passive Perception 16Languages GithWIS15 (+2)CHA17 (+3)Challenge 12 (8,400 XP) Proficiency Bonus +4ACTIONSMultiattack. The githyanki makes three Greatsword attacks.Greatsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., onetarget. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) slashing damage plus 17 (5d6) psy-chic damage.Spellcasting (Psionics). The githyanki casts one of the followingspells, requiring no spell components and using Intelligence asthe spellcasting ability (spell save DC 15):At will: mage hand (the hand is invisible)3/day each: blur, nondetection (self only)1/day each: plane shift, telekinesisBONUS ACTIONSAstral Step (Recharge 4-6). The githyanki teleports, along withany equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 30 feet to an un-occupied space it can see.Rally the Troops. The githyanki magically ends the charmed andfrightened conditions on itself and each creature of its choicethat it can see within 30 feet of it .REACTIONSParry. The githyanki adds 4 to its AC against one melee attackthat would hit it . To do so, the githyanki must see the attackerand be wielding a melee weapon.GITHYANKI Gt SHGITHYANKI SUPREMECOMMANDERMedium Humanoid (Gith), Any AlignmentArmor Class 18 ( pl at e)Hit Poin ts 187 (22 d8 + 88)Speed 30 ft.STR19 (+4)DEX17 (+3)CON18 (+4)INT16 (+3)Sav i ng Throws Co n +9 , Int +8 , Wis +8WIS16 (+3)Skills Insight +8, Intimidat ion +9 , Perception +8Senses pass ive Perception 18Languages GithCHA18 (+4)Challenge 14 (11 ,500 XP) Proficiency Bonus +5Legendary Resistance (3/Day) . If th e githyank i fails a sav in gthrow, it can choose to succeed instead .ACTIONSMult iattack. The git hya nki makes two Sil ver Greatsword atta cks.Silver Greatsword. Melee W~apon Attack: +12 to hit, rea ch 5ft. , one target. Hit: 14 (2d6 + 7) slas hin g damage plus 17 (Sd6)psychic damage . On a c ri tical hit aga in st a target in an astra lbody (as w ith the astral projection spel l), the githyanki can cutthe silvery cord that tethers the target to its material bod y, in-stead of dealing damage.GITHYANKISUPREME COMMANDERSpellcasting (Psionics) . The gi th yanki casts one of the followingspel ls, requiring no spell components and using Intelligence asthe spel lcasting ab ility (spell save DC 16):At will: mage hand (the hand is invisible)3/day each : levitate (self only) , nondetection (self only)1/day each : Bigby's hand, mass suggestion , plane shift , telekinesisBONUS ACTIONSAstral Step. The githyanki tel epo rt s, along with any equipmentit is weari ng or carrying, up to 30 feet to an unoccupied spaceit can see.REACTIONSParry. Th e g ith yank i add s 5 to its AC against one melee attackthat would hit it . To do so, the githyanki must see the attackerand be wie ldin g a melee weapon .LEGENDARY ACTIONSTh e gith yanki can take 3 le gendary actions, choosing fromthe optio ns below. Only one le gendary act ion option ca n beused at a time and only at th e end of another creature's turn.Th e githyanki regains spent legendary actions at the startof its turn .Command Ally. The githyanki targets one ally it can see with in30 feet of it . If the target can see or hear the githyanki , thetarget can make one melee weapon attack using its reaction,if availa bl e, and has advantage on the attack rol l.Attack (2 Actions) . The g ith yank i makes one Si lver Great-sword attack.ICHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY r41GITHZERAIGithzerai are otherworldly folk with psionic powerswho share an ancestral link to githyanki (also in thisbook). The githzerai followers of the great leaderZaerith Menyar-Ag-Gith are an ascetic people wholive apart from the rest of the cosmos, within theconfines of fortresses floating through the chaosof Limbo. Instead of imposing their will on otherpeoples, they focus on controlling and manipulatingtheir endlessly malleable home.GITHZERAI ANARCHAnarchs are githzerai sages and mystics who leadcommunities and maintain the adamantine citadelsthat serve as strong points in Limbo and on otherplanes. They have formidable psionic capabilitiesand are able to manipulate the unformed substanceof their adopted plane with a thought.AN ANARCH'S LAIRIn Limbo, githzerai anarchs create islands of tran-quility in this turbulent plane. An anarch can use itspsionic power to give form to formless substance,creating mountains , lakes, and structures to serveas a foundation for a githzerai community.The anarch's challenge rating is 17 (18,000 XP)when it's encountered in its lair.Lair Actions. On initiative count 20 (losing initia-tive ties), the anarch can take one of the followinglair actions; the anarch can't take the same lair ac-tion two rounds in a row :Create Object. The anarch casts the creation spell(as a 9th-level spell) using the unformed substanceof Limbo instead of shadow material. If used inLimbo, the object remains until the anarch's con-centration is broken, regardless of its composition.If the anarch moves more than 120 feet from theobject, the anarch's concentration breaks.Move Object. The anarch can magically move anobject it can see within 150 feet of it by making aWisdom check with advantage. The DC dependson the object's size: DC 5 for Tiny, DC 10 forSmall, DC 15 for Medium, DC 20 for Large, andDC 25 for Huge or larger.Psionic Bolt. The anarch casts the lightning boltspell (at 5th level), but the anarch can change thedamage type from lightning to cold, fire, psychic,radiant, or thunder. If the spell deals damageother than fire or lightning, it doesn't ignite flam-mable objects.Regional Effects. The region containing an an-arch's lair is warped by its presence, which createsone or more of the following effects:Form Substance. In Limbo, the anarch can spend10 minutes stabilizing a 5-mile area centered on it,causing the unformed substance to take whateverinanimate form the anarch chooses . During thatprocess, the anarch determines the shape andcomposition of the forms created.Stabilize Object. The anarch stabilizes any objectcreated in Limbo and brought to the MaterialPlane for as long as the anarch remains within 1mile of it (no action required).If the anarch dies, these effects end after ld6rounds. All formed substance becomes a chaoticchurn of energy and matter, unraveling into un-formed substance that dissipates ld6 rounds later.GITHZERAI ANARCHMedium Humanoid (Gith) , Any AlignmentArmor Class 20 (Psychic Defense)Hit Points 144 (17d8 + 68)Speed 30 ft. , fly 40 ft. (hover)STR16 (+3)DEX21 (+5)CON18 (+4)INT18 (+4)WIS20 (+5)Saving Throws Str +8, Dex +10, Int +9, Wis +10Skills Arcana +9, Insight +10, Perception +10Senses passive Perception 20Languages GithCHA14 (+2)Challenge 16 (15,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +5Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the githzerai fails a savingthrow, it can choose to succeed instead.Psychic Defense. While the githzerai is wearing no armor andwielding no shield, its AC includes its Wisdom modifier.ACTIONSMultiattack. The githzerai makes three Unarmed Strike attacks.Unarmed Strike. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft. ,one target. Hit: 9 (ld8 + 5) bludgeoning damage plus 18 (4d8)psychic damage.Spellcasting (Psionics]. The githzerai casts one of the followingspells, requiring no spell components and using Wisdom asthe spellcasting ability (spell save DC 18):At will: mage hand (the hand is invisible)3/day each : see invisibility, telekinesis1/day each: globe of invulnerability, plane shift, wall offorceLEGENDARY ACTIONSThe githzerai can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from theoptions below. Only one legendary action option can be usedat a time and only at the end of another creature's turn . Thegithzerai regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn.Strike. The githzerai makes one Unarmed Strike attack.Teleport. The githzerai teleports, along with any equipment it iswearing or carrying, to an unoccupied space it can see within30 feet of it.Change Gravity (Costs 3 Actions). The githzerai casts the re-verse gravity spell, using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability.The spell has the normal effect, except that the githzerai canorient the area in any direction and creatures and objects falltoward the end of the area.&P WAG,nnERAI ANARCH(CENTER) WITH TwoGITHHRAI ENLI G HTENEDGITHZERAI ENLIGHTENEDSome spiritual githzerai spend long hours in med-itation to transcend the limits of their forms and toapprehend the nature of reality. Zerths who com-plete the next tier of their training become known asthe enlightened.GITHZERAI ENLIGHTENEDMedium Hum ano id (Gith), Any AlignmentArmor Class 18 (Psychic Defense)Hit Points 112 (l 5d8 + 45)Speed 40 ft.STR14 (+2)DEX19 (+4)CON16 (+3)INT17 (+3)WIS19 (+4)Saving Throws Str +6, Dex +8, Int +7 , Wis +8Skills Arcana +7, Insight +8, Perception +8Senses pass ive Perception 18Languages GithCHAl3 (+l)Challenge 10 (5,900 XP) Proficiency Bonus +4Psychic Defense. While the githzerai is wearing no armor andwie lding no shie ld, its AC includes its Wisdom modifier.ACTIONSMultiattack. The githze rai makes three UnarmedStrike attacks.Unarmed Strike. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft.,one target. Hit: l3 (2d8 + 4) bludgeoning damage plus 18 (4d8)psychic damage.Spel/casting (Psionics) . The githzerai casts one of the followingspells, requiring no spell components and using Wisdom asthe spellcasting ability (spell save DC 16):At will: mage hand (the hand is invisible)3/day: see invisibility1/day each: plane shift, teleportTemporal Strike (Recharge 6). Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit,reach 5 ft ., one creature. Hit: l3 (2d8 + 4) bludgeoning dam-age plus 52 (8dl2) psychic damage. The target must succeedon a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or move l round forward intime. A target moved forward in time vanishes for the duration.When the effect ends, the target reappears in the space it leftor in an unoccupied space nearest to that space if it's occupied .REACTIONSSlow Fall . When the githzerai falls, it reduces any falling dam-age it takes by 50.ICHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 143Medium Monstrosity, Typically Chaotic EvilArmor Class 14 (studded leather)Hit Points 22 (4d8 + 4)Speed 30 ft.STR12 (+l)DEX14 (+ 2)Saving Throws Dex +4CON12 (+l)INT8 (-1)WIS10 (+ 0)Senses da rkvision 60 ft. , passi ve Perception l 0Languages GnollCHA8 (-1)Challenge l (200 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2ACTIONSMultiattack. Th e gno ll makes one Bite attack and t wo Shorts-word attacks.Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target .Hit: 4 (l d4 + 2) piercing damage.Shortsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., onetarget. Hit: 5 (ld6 + 2) piercing damage.Sudden Rush. Until the end of the turn, the gnol l's speed in-creases by 60 feet and it doesn't provoke.opportunity attacks.BONUS ACTIONSRampage. After the gno ll reduces a creature to 0 hit points witha melee attack on its turn , the gnoll moves up to half its speedand makes a Bite attack.144 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYGNOLLSThe first gnolls were hyen as transformed by magic.Many of them were then corrupted by the demonlord Yeenoghu. Whether in service to Yeenoghuor dedicated to the survival of their kin, gnoll warbands seek to soften up foes with surprise attacksand to leave no survivors alive.GNOLL FLESH GNAWERThese gnolls eschew the use of ranged weaponsin favor of short blades that they wield with greatspeed and efficiency. In the thick of a fight , the y dashacross the battlefield, slash ing and snarling as theyrun down stragglers and finish off wounded foes.GNOLL HUNTERHunters are the stealthiest gnolls in a war band. Inthe vanguard , they creep around, picking off iso-lated opposition while clearing the way for the restof the force to advance.Hunters are particularly skilled with the longbow,and they fire arrows with viciously barbed heads.Even when a hunter doesn't kill their target withtheir first shot, the arrow strike brings so much painthat the victim is hobbled in its attempt to run away.GNOLL HUNTERMedium Monstrosity, Typically Chaotic EvilArmor Class l3 (leather armor)Hit Points 22 (4d8 + 4)Speed 30 ft .STR14 (+2)DEX14 (+2)CON12 (+l)Skills Perception +3, Stealth +4INT8 (-1)WIS12 (+l)Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception l3Languages GnollCHA8 (- 1Challenge 1/2 (100 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2ACTIONSMultiattack. The gno ll makes two Bite , Spear, or Long-bow attacks.Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.Hit: 4 ( ld 4 + 2) piercing damage.Spear. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft. orrange 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (ld6 + 2) piercing damage,or 6 (ld8 + 2) piercing damage when used with two hand s tomake a melee attack.Longbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, range 150/600 ft.,one target. Hit: 6 (ld8 + 2) piercing damage, and the target'sspeed is reduced by 10 feet until the end of its next turn.BONUS ACTIONSRampage. After the gnoll reduces a creature to 0 hit points witha melee attack on its turn , the gno ll moves up to half it s speedand makes a Bite attack.GNOLL WITHERLINGMedium Undead, Typically Chaotic £~iiArmor Class 12 (natural armor)Hit Points 11 (2d8 + 2)Speed 30 ft .STR14 (+2)DEX8 (- 1)CON12 (+1)Damage Immunities poisonINT5 (- 3)WIS5 (- 3)Condition Immunities exhaustion , poisonedSenses darkvision 60 ft ., passive Perception 7Languages understands Gnoll but can't speakCHA5 (- 3)Challenge 1/4 (SO XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Unusual Nature. The witherling doesn't require air, food,drink, or sleep.ACTIONSMultiattack. The witherling makes two Bite or SpikedClub attacks.Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.Hit: 4 (ld4 + 2) necrotic damage .Spiked Club. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., onetarget. Hit: 4 (ld4 + 2) piercing damage.BONUS ACTIONSRampage. After the witherling reduces a creature to O hit pointswith a melee attack on its turn, the gnoll moves up to half itsspeed and makes one Bite <;1ttack.REACTIONSVengeful Strike. In response to a gnoll being reduced to O hitpoints within 30 feet of the witherling, the witherling makesone Bite or Spiked Club attack .GNOLL WITHERLINGSometimes the gnolls ofYeenoghu turn againsteach other, perhaps to determine who rules a warband or because of extreme starvation. Even underordinary circumstances, gnolls that are deprivedof victims for too long struggle to control their hun-ger and violent urges. Eventually, they fight amongthemselves .The survivors devour the flesh of their slain com-rades but preserve the bones. Then, by invokingrituals to Yeenoghu (appears in this book) they bringth e re mains back to a se mblance of life in the formof a gnoll with erling.With erlings travel with th eir c omrad es and try tokill a nything in the ir path. Th ey don't e at a nd ar en'tmotivated by hunger, lea ving mor e fl e sh for th e restof th e war band.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 145GRAY RENDERA curious impulse drives the gray render. Despiteits hulking form and terrible appetite, it wants mostof all to bond with an intelligent creature and, oncebonded, to give its life to protect that creature. Greatstrength and a ferocious nature make gray rendersfierce guardians, but they lack a shred of cunning.Gray renders reproduce by forming nodules ontheir bodies that, on reaching maturity, break off tobegin life as young gray renders. They feel no obliga-tion to their young and have no inclination to gatherwith others of their kind. Instead, each has an over-powering need to bond with an intelligent creature.When one encounters a suitable master, it sings tothat creature - a weird, warbling cry accompaniedby scratching at the earth and a show of deference.Once it forms a bond, a gray render serves its mas-ter devotedly.A gray render might be a strong ally, but it'salways an unpredictable one. In combat, a grayrender fights viciously and never willingly harmsits master, but outside battle, it might cause consid-erable difficulties. It might follow its master despitebeing told to stay put, destroy its master's house,burrow holes through a ship's hull, attack out of jeal-ousy, or worse.The Gray Render Quirks table presents possiblequirks for gray renders that can be generated ran-domly or selected as desired.GRAY RENDER QUIRKSdl2 QuirkHates horses and -other mounts2 Roars loudly when its bonded creature istouched by another creature3456789101112Likes to snuggleUproots and chews on treesHas terrific and eye-watering flatulenceBrings offerings of meat to its bonded creatureCompulsively digs up the groundAttacks carts and wagons as if they were terriblemonstersHowls when it rainsWhines piteously in the darkBuries treasure it findsChases birds, leaping into the air to catch them,heedless of the destruction it causes146 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYLarge Monstr os ity, Typi ca ll y Ch aotic Neut ralArmor Class 19 (n at ura l armor)Hit Points 18 9 (18d l 0 + 90)Speed 30 ft.STR19 (+4)DEX13 (+ l)CON20 (+5 )Saving Throws Str +8, Co n +9Skills Pe rc eption +2INT3 (-4 )WIS6 (-2 )Senses dar kv ision 60 ft. , passive Perce ption 12Languages -CHA8 (- 1)Challenge 12 (8 ,40 0 XP) Proficiency Bonus +4ACTIONSMultiattack. The gray render makes one Bite attack and t woClaw attacks.Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft. , one target.Hit: 17 (2dl2 + 4) piercing damage . If the target is Medium orsmaller, the target must succeed on a DC 16 Strength savingthrow or be knocked prone.Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit , reach 10 ft., one target.Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) slashing damage, plus 10 (3d6) bludgeoningdamage if the target is prone.REACTIONSBloody Rampage. When the gray render takes damage, it makesone Claw attack against a random creature within its reach ,other than its master.GRAZ'ZTThe appearance of this demon lord is a warningthat not all that is beautiful is good. Every plane andcurve of his nine-foot-tall body, every glance of hisburning eyes, promises a mixture of pleasure andpain. Graz'zt can transform himself at will, appear -ing in any humanlike form that pleases him or hisonlookers, all equally tempting in their own ways.In every form, though, a subtle wrongness pervadeshis beauty, from the cruel cast of his features to thesix fingers on each hand and six toes on each foot.Graz'zt surrounds himself with the finest of thingsand the most attractive of servants, and he adornshimself in silks and leathers both striking and dis-turbing in their workmanship. His lair and those ofhis cultists are pleasure palaces where nothing isforbidden save moderation and kindness.Cults devoted to him are secret societies of indul-gence, often using their debauchery to subjugateothers through blackmail, addiction, and manip -ulation. They wear alabaster masks with ecstaticexpressions and ostentatious dress and body orna-mentation to their secret assignations .Although he prefers charm and subtle manipu -lation, Graz'zt is capable of terrible violence whenprovoked. He wields the greatsword Angdrelve, alsocalled Wave of Sorrow, whose wavy, razor-edgedblade drips acid at his command.GRAz'zT's LAIRGraz'zt's principal lair is his Argent Palace, a gran-diose structure in the city of Zelatar, found withinhis abyssal domain of Azzatar. Graz'zt's demonicinfluence radiates outward in a tangible ripple,warping reality around him. Given enough time in asingle location, Graz'zt can twist it with his power.Graz'zt's lair is a den of ostentation and hedonism.It is adorned with finery and decorations so deca -dent that even the wealthiest of mortals wouldblush at the excess . Within Graz'zt's lairs, dev-otees and subjects alike are forced to slakeGraz'zt's thirst for pageantry.LAIR ACTIONSOn initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Graz'ztcan take one of the following lair actions; he can 'ttake the same lair action two rounds in a row:Command. Graz'zt casts the command spell onevery creature of his choice in the lair. He needn'tsee each one, but he must be aware that an in-dividual is in the lair to target that creature. Heissues the same command to all the targets.IiCHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 1474rAz'zt proveJ. to be I,\ plel'\tif1,d 101,1rce of mA~icAIel'\er~y- He \eem\ to thil'\k there'\ \omethi""~ morebetweel'\ 1,1\. He'll eve~t1.1Ally ~~1,1re 01.1t the trnth.TASHAConjure Mirrors. Smooth surfaces within the lairbecome as reflective as a polished mirror. Untila different lair action is us ed, creatures withinthe lajr have disadvantage on Dexterity (Stealth)checks made to hide.REGIONAL EFFECTSThe region containing Graz 'zt's lair is warped by hismagic, creating one or more of th e following effects:Agitated Beasts. Wild beasts within 6 miles of thelair break into frequent conflicts and coupling,mirroring the behavior that occurs during theirmating seasons.•Beguiling Realm. Within 6 miles of the lair, all Wis-dom (Insight) checks have disadvantage, and allCharisma (Deception) and Charisma (Persuasion)checks have advantage.Mirrors Everywhere. Flat surfaces within 1 mileof th e lair that are made of stone or metal becomehighly reflective, as though polished to a shine.These surfaces become supernaturally mirrorlike.If Graz 'zt dies , these effects fade over the course ofldlO days.CULTISTS OF GRAZ'ZTGraz'zt grants his cultists sp ecial abilities. His cult-ists can gain the Joy from Pain trait, while his cultleaders can gain the Master of Pleasur es trait.Joy from Pain. Whenever this creature suffers a critical hit, itcan make one melee weapon attack as a reaction .Master of Pleasures. As a reaction when this creature takesdamage, it can magically grant 5 temporary hit points to itselfand up to three allies within 30 feet of it .- ss;--- :ti 5§4 ::::t --¥S--:c;:c ~- 'HffB lC 5¥#±:::ri @$ -- - -,,GRAZ'ZTLarge Fiend (Demon), Chaotic EvilArmor Class 20 (natural armor)Hit Points 346 (33dl0 + 165)Speed 40 ft .STR22 (+6)DEX15 (+2)CON21 (+5)INT23 (+6)Saving Throws Dex +9 , Con +12, Wis +12WIS21 (+5)Skills Deception +15, Insight +12 , Perception +12,Persuasion +15Damage Resistances cold, fire, lightningCHA26 (+8)Damage Immunities poison; bludgeoning, piercing, andslashing that is nonmagicalCondition Immunities charmed , exhaustion, frightened ,poisonedSenses truesight 120 ft., passive Perception 22Languages all, telepathy 120 ft .Challenge 24 (62 ,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +7Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Graz'zt fails a saving throw, hecan choose to succeed instead.Magic Resistance. Graz'zt has advantage on saving throwsagainst spells and other magical effects.ACTIONSMultiattack. Graz'zt makes two Wave of Sorrow attacks. Hecan replace one attack with a use of Spellcasting.Wave of Sorrow (Creatsword). Mel ee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit,reach 10 ft ., one target. Hit: 20 (4d6 + 6) force damage plus 14(4d6) acid damage.::::, ½ - * ==:5::e- -- ---:::::- e::::: --::-.. e.:;:;.::;148 C H A P TER 2 I BE STI A RYSpellcasting. Graz'zt casts one of the following spells, requiringno material components and using Charisma as the spellcast-ing ability (spell save DC 23):At will: charm person, detect magic, dispel magic3/day each: darkness, dominate person, te lekinesis , teleport1/day each: dominate monster, greater invisibilityTeleport. Graz'zt teleports, along with any equipment he iswearing or carrying, up to 120 feet to an unoccupied spacehe can see.BONUS ACTIONSChange Shape. Graz'zt transforms into a form that resembles aMedium Humanoid or back into his true form. Aside from hissize, his statistics are the same in each form. Any equipmenthe is wearing or carrying isn't transformed.REACTIONSNegate Spell (Recharge 5-6). Graz'zt tries to interrupt a spellhe sees a creature casting within 60 feet of him . If the spell is3rd level or lower, the spell fails and has no effect. If the spellis 4th level or higher, Graz'zt makes a Charisma check againsta DC ofl0 + the spell 's level. On a success , the spell fails andhas no effect.LEGENDARY ACTIONSGraz'zt can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the op-tions below. Only one legendary action option can be used ata time and only at the end of another creature's turn . Graz'ztregains spent legendary actions at the start of his turn .Abyssal Magic. Graz'zt uses Spellcasting or Teleport.Attack. G raz'zt makes one Wave of Sorrow attack.Dance, My Puppet! One creature charmed by Graz'zt thatGraz 'zt can see must use its reaction to move up to its speedas Graz' zt directs.1GRUNGSGrungs ar e frog-like folk found in rain for es ts a ndtropica l jungles . Th ese amphibians pr efer shad eand liv e in trees , but th ey maintain hatcheri es fortheir offspring in we ll -guarded ground-level pools.About t hr ee months after hat ching, a grung tadpoletakes on the sh ape of an adult, a nd after anoth er sixmonths, the grung reaches maturity.Born in a wide rang e of colors, grungs most of-ten ap pear in shades of green, blue, purp le, red,orange, and gold. All gr un gs s ecrete a sub stanc ethat is har ml ess to them but poisonous to othercreat ur es, an d sometimes that su bstan ce has a spe -cial effe ct based on the grung's color (s ee "Variant:Grung Poison."). T hey also us e this venom to poisontheir weapo ns.GRUNGThe grung stat block re presents a typical grung war-rior or hunter, met eith er in a grung community ortraveling el sew h er e as a mer ce nary, game warden ,gua r d, or bandit.GRUNG ELITE WARRIORA g ru ng elite warr ior typically le ads a group ofgrung and oth er warriors into battle and is often ac-compan ied by a g run g wildling.GRUNG WILDLINGGifted with druidic mag ic, a grung wildling typ-ically serves as an advisor, a h ea ler, a nd a nur-turer of crops.GRUNGSm all Hu man oid, Any A li gnm entArmor Class 12Hit Points ll (2d6 + 4)Speed 25 ft. , climb 25 ft .STR7 (- 2)DEX14 (+ 2)Saving Throws De x +4CON15 (+2)INT10 (+O)WISll (+ 0)CHA10 (+O)Skills Athl etics +2, Pe rcept ion +2, Stealth +4, Survival +2Damage Immunities poisonCondition Immunities poisonedSenses pass ive Perception 12Languages GrungChallenge l/4 (SO XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Amphibious. Th e gr un g ca n breathe air and water.Poisonous Skin. An y creatu re th at gra ppl es th e grun g or oth-erwise co mes into d irect contact with the grung's skin mustsucceed o n a DC 12 Co nstit ution saving th ro w or becomepoiso ned for l minute. A poiso ned creature no lon ger in direc tcontact w ith th e g ru ng can repeat the savi ng throw at the endof each of its t urn s, endin g the e ffect on it self on a success .Standing Leap . Th e grun g's lo ng ju mp is up to 25 feet a nd itshi gh jump is up to 15 feet , with or wit hout a run ning start.Water Dependency. If th e gr un g isn't imm ersed in wate r forat leas t l hour du ring a day, it suffers l level of exhaustion atthe end of that day. The gr un g ca n recover from this exhaus-tio n o nl y through mag ic o r by imm ersi ng it self in wa ter for atleast l hou r.ACTIONSDagger. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit , reach 5 ft .or ran ge 20/6 0 ft., one target. Hi t: 4 (l d4 + 2) piercing damagep lu s 5 (2d4) po ison damage.ICHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 149VARIANT: GRUNG POISONA creature poisoned by a grung can suffer an addi-tional effect that depends on the grung's color, asdescribed below. This effect lasts until the creatureis no longer poisoned by the grung .Blue Grung. The poisoned creature must make a loud noise atthe start and end of its turn.Gold Grung. The creature is charmed by the grung and canspeak Grung.GRUNG ELITE WARRIORSmall Humanoid, Any AlignmentArmor Class 13Hit Points 49 (9d6 + 18)Speed 25 ft ., climb 25 ft.STR7 (-2)DEX16 (+3)Saving Throws Dex +5CON15 (+2)INT10 (+0)WIS11 (+0)CHA12 (+l)Skills Athletics +2 , Perception +2 , Stealth +5 , Survival +2Damage Immunities poisonCondition Immunities poisonedSenses passive Perception 12Languages GrungChallenge 2 (450 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Amphibious. The grung can breathe air and water .Poisonous Skin. Any creature that grapples the grung or oth-erwise comes into direct contact with the grung 's skin mustsucceed on a DC 12 Constitution saving throw or becomepoisoned for l minute . A poisoned creature no longer in directcontact with the grung can repeat the saving throw at the endof each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success .Standing Leap. The grung's long jump is up to 25 feet and itshigh jump is up to 15 feet , with or without a running start.Water Dependency. If the grung isn 't immersed in water forat least l hour during a day, it suffers l level of exhaustion atthe end of that day. The grung can recover from this exhaus-tion only through magic or by immersing itself in water for atleast l hour.ACTIONSDagger. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit , reach 5 ft .or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit : 5 (l d4 + 3) piercing damageplus 5 (2d4) poison damage .Shortbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, range 80/320 ft. ,one target . Hit: 6 (ld6 + 3) piercing damage plus 5 (2d4) po i-son damage .Mesmerizing Chirr (Recharge 6). The grung makes a chirringnoise to which grungs are immune. Each Humanoid or Beastthat is within 15 feet of the grung and able to hear it must suc-ceed on a DC 12 Wisdom saving throw or be stunned until theend of the grung's next turn .I$O CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY•Green Grung. The poisoned creature can't move except toclimb or make standing jumps . If the creature is flying, it can'ttake any actions or reactions unless it lands .Orange Grung. The poisoned creature is frightened of its allies.Purple Grung. The poisoned creature feels a desperate need tosoak itself in liquid or mud . It can 't take actions or move exceptto do so or to reach a body of liquid or mud .Red Grung. The poisoned creature must use its action to eat iffood is within reach.f :?4 #i§f--?#fr :!.5¥ z::c&....?>2-- - Ci - - &-??r::GRUNG WILDLINGSmall Humanoid , Any AlignmentArmor Class 16 (natural armor)Hit Points 27 (5d6 + 10)Speed 25 ft ., climb 25 ft .STR7 (-2)DEX16 (+3)Saving Throws Dex +5CON15 (+2)INT10 (+0)WIS15 (+2)CHA11 (+0)Skills Athletics +2 , Perception +4, Stealth + 5, Survival +4Damage Immunities poisonCondition Immunities poisonedSenses passive Perception 14Languages GrungChallenge l (200 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Amphibious. The grung can breathe air and water.Poisonous Skin. Any creature that grapples the grung or oth -erwise comes into direct contact with the grung's skin mustsucceed on a DC 12 Constitution saving throw or becomepoisoned for l minute. A poisoned creature no longer in directcontact with the grung can repeat the saving throw at the endof each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success .Standing Leap. The grung's long jump is up to 25 feet and itshigh jump is up to 15 feet , with or without a running start .Water Dependency. If the grung isn 't immersed in water forat least l hour during a day, it suffers l level of exhaustion atthe end of that day. The grung can recover from this exhaus-tion only through magic or by immersing itself in water for atleast l hour.ACTIONSDagger. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft.or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (l d4 + 3) piercing damageplus 5 (2d4) poison damage .Shortbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, range 80/320 ft. ,one target. Hit : 6 (ld6 + 3) piercing damage plus 5 (2d4) poi-son damage .Spellcasting. The grung casts one of the following spells, usingWisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 12) :At will : druidcraft3/day each : cure wounds, spike growth2/day: plant growthGUARD DRAKEA guard drake is a reptilian creature created out ofdragon scales by means of a bizarre and grisly rit-ual. When trained properly, a drake is obedient andterritorial, which makes it an excellent watch beastthat can follow simple commands .Tiamat's cult practices the ritual to create guarddrakes, as do other groups that are skilled in arcanaand associated with Dragons. The ritual requiresa chromatic dragon 's aid; the dragon typicallyhelps to reward its allies or worshipers with a valu-able servant.The ritual, which takes several days, requires10 pounds of fresh dragon scales (donated by thedragon allied with the group), a large amount offresh meat, and an iron cauldron. When the processis complete, a Small egg emerges from the cauldronand hatches within a few hours.A newly hatched guard drake imprints upon thefirst creature that feeds it (usually the one planningto train it), establishing an aggressive but trustingbond with that individual. A guard drake is fullygrown within two to three weeks and can be trainedin the same length of time. It is the equivalent of aguard dog in terms of what it can be trained to do.A guard drake resembles the type of dragon it wascreated from, but with a wingless , squat, muscularbuild. A drake can't reproduce, nor can its scales beused to make other guard drakes .VARIANT: CHROMATIC DRAKESEach type of c hromatic dragon's scal es cre ates aguard drak e that re se mbles a wingless, stunt edversion of that type of dragon , with unique abilitiesrelated to that type. Each has th e sp ec ial fe aturesdescribed below.Black Guard Drake. The drake can breathe air and water, has aswimming speed of 30 feet, and has resistance to acid damage.Blue Guard Drake. The drake has a burrowing speed of 20 feetand resistance to lightning damage.Green Guard Drake. The drake can breathe air and water,has a swimming speed of 30 feet, and has resistance to poi-son damage.Red Guard Drake. The drake has climbing speed of 30 feet andresistance to fire damage.White Guard Drake. The drake has a burrowing speedof 20 feet, a climbing speed of 30 feet, and resistance tocold damage.GUARD DRAKEMedium Dragon , UnalignedArmor Class 14 (natural armo r)Hit Points 52 (7d8 + 21)Speed 30 ft .STR16 (+3)DEXll (+0)Skills Perception +2CON16 (+ 3)INT4 (-3)WIS10 (+ 0)Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 12Languages understands Draconic but can 't speakCHA7 (- 2)Challenge 2 (450 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2ACTIONSMultiattack. The guard drake makes one Bite attack and oneTail attack.Bite. Me le e Weapon Attack: +5 to hit , reach 5 ft ., one target.Hit: 7 (ld8 + 3) piercing damage .Tail. Mele e Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft. , one target. Hit :6 (ld6 + 3) bludgeoning damage.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 1$1HELLFIRE ENGINEHellfire engines are semiautonomous bringersof destruction. Amnizus (in this book) and otherdevilish generals hold them in reserve until theyare needed to repel an incursion by demons orcrusading mortals, but occasionally one of thesemagical-mechanical hybrids gets loose, driven ber-serk by its need to destroy.Hellfire engines take many forms, but all of themhave one purpose: to mow down foes in waves. Theyare incapable of subtlety or trickery, but their de-structive capability is immense.Mortal creatures slain by hellfire engines aredoomed to join the infernal legions in mere hoursunless powerful magic-wielders intervene on theirbehalf. The archdukes of the Nine Hells would likenothing better than to modify this magic so it worksagainst demons, too, but that discovery has eludedthem so far.HELLFIRE ENGINEHuge Construct, Typically Lawful EvilArmor Class 18 (natural armor)Hit Points 216 (l6dl2+ 112)Speed 40 ft .STR20 (+5)DEX16 (+3)CON24 (+7)INT2 (-4)Saving Throws De x +8, Wis +5 , Cha +0WIS10 (+ O)CHAl (-5)Damage Resistances cold, ps ych ic; bludgeoning, piercing, andslashing from nonmagical attacks that aren't silveredDamage Immunities fire, poisonCondition Immunities charmed , deafened , exhaustion,frightened, paralyzed , poisoned , unconsciousSenses dark vision 120 ft., passive Perception l 0Languages understands Infernal but can't speakChallenge 16 (15 ,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +5Immutable Form. Th e he llfir e engine is immune to any spel l oreffect that wou ld alter its form.Magic Resistance. The hellfire engine ha s advantage on savingthrows against spel ls and other magical effects.Unusual Nature. The hellfire engine doesn 't require air, food,drink, or sleep.ACTIONSFlesh-Crushing Stride. The hellfire engine moves up to itsspeed in a straight lin e. During this move, it can enter Large orsma ller creatures' spaces. A creature whose space the hellfireengine enters must make a DC 18 De xter it y saving thro w. On asuccessful save, the creature is pushed to the nearest space outof the hellfire eng in e's path. On a failed save, the creature fallsprone and takes 28 (8d6) bludgeoning damage.If the hellfire engine remains in the prone creature's space,I52 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY•the creature is also restrained until it 's no longer in the samespace as the hellfire engine. While restrained in this way , thecreature, or another creature within 5 feet of it, can make a DC18 Strength check. On a success, the creature is shunted to anunoccupied space of its choice within 5 feet of the hellfire en-gine and is no longer restrained.Hellfire Weapons. The hellfire engine uses one of the followingoptions (choose one or rol l a d6) :1-2: Bonemelt Sprayer. The h el lfire engine spews acidic flamein a 60-foot cone. Each creature in th e cone must make a DC20 Dexterity saving thro w, taking 11 (2dl0) fire damage plus18 (4d8) acid damage on a failed save, or half as much dam-age on a successfu l one . Creatures that fail the saving throware drenched in burning acid and take 5 (ldlO) fire damageplus 9 (2d8) acid damage at the end of their turns . An af-fected creature or another creature within 5 feet of it can takean action to scrape off the burning fuel.3-4: Lightning Flail. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 15ft ., one creature. Hit: 18 (3d8 + 5) bludgeoning damage plus22 (5d8) lightning damage. Up to three other creatures ofthe hellfire engine's choice that it can see within 30 feet ofthe target must each make a DC 20 De xterity saving throw,taking 22 (5d8) lightning damage on a fa iled save, or half asmuch damage on a successful one.5-6: Thunder Cannon . The hellfire engine targets a point within120 feet ofit that it can see . Each creature with in 30 feet ofthat point must make a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw, tak-ing 27 (5dl0) bludgeoning damage plus 19 (3dl2) thunderdamage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a suc-cessful one.If the chosen option kills a creature, the creature's soul risesfrom the River St yx as a lemure in Avernus in ld4 hours . If thecreature isn 't revived before then , only a wish spell or killing thelemure and casting true resurrection on the creature's originalbody can restore it to life. Constructs and devils are immu ne tothis effect.HOBGOBLIN DEVASTATORHobgoblins with a prodigious talent for magicsome times undergo grueling training to becomehobgoblin devastators. Devastators are spellcasterswho call down fireballs and other destructive magicin the defense of the court they serve, whether thatcourt is in the Feywild or the Material Plane. A hob-gob lin devastator on the battlefield is a boon to theirallies and a threat to every foe around them.Far from being cloistered academics, hobgoblindevastators are masters of the battlefield. In addi-tion to tactical applications of the magical arts, theylearn the basics of weapon use, and they measuretheir deeds by the enemies defeated though theirmagic. They have the respect of other members ofthe host and receive obedience and deference frommany quarters.In the Feywild, many archfey seek to bolstertheir armies' might with the services of hobgoblindevastators.GOBLINOIDS OF THE FEYWILDThe goblinoid peoples-goblins , hobgoblins , andbugbears-first appeared in the Feywild millennia ago,and they resided there until the god Maglubiyet con-quered them . They then spread throughout the multi-verse, with many of them ending up on the worlds ofthe Material Plane. Most goblinoids encountered onthose worlds are members of families that have beenaway from the Feywild for centuries, and over time,those lineages have become Humanoid. Fey gobli-noids , who still bear the magic of the Feywild, are rareon the Material Plane but not unheard of. Hobgoblindevastators are examples of such Fey folk, as are hob-goblin iron shadows and nilbogs (also in this book) .HOBGOBLIN DEVASTATORMedium Fey (Goblinoid), Typically Lawful NeutralArmor Class 13 (studded leather)Hit Points 45 (7d8 + 14)Speed 30 ft.STR13 (+l)DEX12 (+l)Skills Arc a na +5CON14 (+ 2)INT16 (+3)WIS13 (+l)Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception l lLanguages Common , GoblinCHAll (+O)Challenge 4 (l ,l 00 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Army Arcana. When the hobgoblin casts a spell that causesdamage or that forces other creatures to make a saving throw,it can choose itself and any number of allies to be immune tothe damage caused by the spell and to succeed on the requiredsaving throw.ACTIONSMultiattack. The hobgoblin makes two Quarterstaff or Devas-tating Bolt attacks.Quarterstaff. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit , reach 5 ft., onetarget. Hit: 4 (ld6 + l) bludgeoning damage, or 5 (ld8 + l)bludgeoning damage if used with two hands , plus 13 (3d8)force damage.Devastating Bolt. Ranged Spell Attack: +5 to hit , range 60 ft.,one target . Hit : 21 (4d8 + 3) force damage, and the target isknocked prone.Spellcasting. The hobgoblin casts one of the following spells,using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 13):At will : mage hand, prestidigitation2/day each: fireball, fly, fog cloud, gust of wind, lightning boltCHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 153HOBGOBLIN IRON SHADOWIron sh adows ar e hobgoblin ma rtial art ist s whose rve fey a nd mortal co urts as s e cr et police, scouts,and ass a ssins. Th ey sp y to fe rr et out trea che ry,rebellion, and betrayal a nd deal with it ruthlessly.Iron shadows p osses s agility and stamin a matchedonly by th e ir ironclad c ommitm ent to the will oftheir masters . They wield a deadly combination ofunarm ed fighting t ec hniqu es a nd shadow magic todeceive and defea t th eir fo es. While on secr et mis-s io ns , th ey w ea r masks crafted to r ese mble mon -ste rs , bo th to conc eal th eir id e ntities a nd to s trikefea r into their fo es.An iron shadow is usually recruited from thera nk s of th e Fe ywild's hobgoblin ar mies or fromamong th e hobgoblins who have r es ided in the Ma-terial Pl ane for centuries. A ca ndidate for admissionundergoes a se ries of t es ts d es igned to reveal anypotential for tr eac hery. Tho se wh o fail a re slain,•while those wh o pa ss r ece iv e sec ret t ra ining in thearts of ma gi c a nd st ea lth. T his indoc trin ation is aslow and arduous pro ces s; many as pira nt s don 'tfinish it, a nd yea rs might go by durin g which theiron sh adows welc om e no new me mb ers into theirranks. Wh en a r ec ruit's train i ng is complete, th eyar e task ed with conducting ass as sinations a ndspy missions.HOBGOBLIN IRON SHADOWMedium Fey (Goblinoid) , Typi caf/y Lawful NeutralArmor Class 15 (Unarmored Defen se)Hit Points 32 (5d8 + 10)Speed 40 ft.STR14 (+2)DEX16 (+3)CON15 (+ 2)INT14 (+2 )WIS15 (+2)Skills Acrobatics +5, Athletics +4, Stealth +5Senses dar kvi s io n 60 ft ., pass ive Perception 12Languages Common , Go bl inCHA11 (+O)Challenge 2 (450 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Unarmored Defense. While the ho b go blin is we arin g no ar mora nd wie ld ing no s hi e ld , its AC inclu des it s Wisdo m mod ifi er.ACTIONSMultiattack. Th e ho bgo bl in ma kes fo ur att acks, each of whi chca n be an Un armed St ri ke or a Dart attack. It ca n also useShad ow Jaunt once, eith er before o r a ft er one of th e att a ck s.Unarmed Stri ke . Me lee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft.,one target. Hi t: 5 (1d4 + 3) bludgeo nin g damage.Dart. Ran ge d We ap on Attack. +5 to hit, range 20/ 60 ft. , one tar-get . Hit: 5 (ld 4 + 3) pierc in g dam age.Shadow Jaunt. Th e hob go blin te lepo rt s, along w ith any eq ui p-ment it is we aring or car ry ing, up to 30 feet to an unoccu p iedspace it can see. Bot h the space it leaves and its des ti nationmu st be in dim lig ht or dark ness.Spellcasting. The hobgo bl in casts one of the fo llowing spel ls,u si ng In te lligen ce as th e spe ll castin g a bili ty (s pe ll save DC 12) :At w ill : m inor illu sion, prestidigitation1/day eac h: cha rm person, disguise self, sil ent imageHOWLERA far-off wail precedes the sight of a howler. Evenat a distance, listeners' minds cringe at the soundand fill with horror at the realization that the noiseis drawing closer. When howlers go on the prowl,courage isn't enough to stand up against them.These nightmare creatures are native to Pan-demonium, but they can be found on most of theLower Planes, where they are trained as warhounds. Howlers can be domesticated, after afashion, but they respond only to brutal training inwhich they are forced to recognize the trainer asthe pack's undisputed leader. A trained pack thenfollows its leader without hesitation. Howler packscourse over the battlefields of the Blood War andalso serve evil mortals powerful and vicious enoughto command their loyalty.Howlers rely on speed, numbers, and theirmind-numbing howling to corner prey before theytear it apart. Their howls flood the minds of theirvictims, making complex thought impossible. Lis-teners can do little more than stare in horror andstumble around the battlefield in a search for safety.Fiends especia lly prize howlers for this reason,because for a few crucia l moments in a battle, theirhowls can neutralize an enemy.Larg e Fiend , Typi cally Cha otic EvilArmor Class 16 (natural armor)Hit Points 90 (12dl0 + 24)Speed 40 ft.STR17 (+3)DEX16 (+ 3)Skills Perception +5CON15 (+2)INT5 (-3)WIS14 (+2)CHA6 (-2)Damage Resistances cold, fire, lightning; bludgeoning, piercing,and slashing from nonmag ical attacksCondition Immunities frightenedSenses darkvision 60 ft. , passive Perception 15Languages understands Abyssal but can 't speakChallenge 8 (3,900 XP) Proficiency Bonus +3Pack Tactics. A howler has advantage on attack rolls against acreature if at least one of the howler's allies is within 5 feet ofthe creature and the ally isn't incapacitated.ACTIONSMultiattack. The howler makes two Rending Bite attacks.Rending Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft.,one target. Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) piercing damage, plus 22 (4dl0)psychic damage if the target is frightened. This attack ignoresdamage resistance.Mind-Breaking Howl (Recharge 4-6). The howler emits a keen-ing howl in a 60-foot cone. Each creature in that area mustsucceed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or take 16 (3dl0)psych ic damage and be frightened until the end of the howler'snext turn . While a creature is fr ightened in this way , its speed ishalved, and it is incapacitated . A target that successfully savesis immune to the Mind-Breaking Howl of all howlers for thenext 24 hours .•CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 155HUTIJINPolitics in the Ni ne Hells are anything but predict-able. Alliances form all the time, but most wind upunraveling due to treachery. Nevertheless, for alltheir backbiting and betrayal, devils do occasionallydisplay loyalty, offering unwavering service to theirmasters. One such example is Hutijin, a duke of Ca-nia and loyal servant of Mephistopheles.Across the Hells, Hutijin's name fills lesser devilswith fear and loathing, for this duke commands twocompanies of pit fiends (see the Monster Manual).With such soldiers under his command, Hutijin caneasily crush any rival who gets in his way while alsodefending Mephistopheles against armies seek-ing to contest his dominion . Hutijin has amassedenough power to challenge the lord of Cania , but hehas never wavered in his support for his master-suggesting, perhaps, that Mephistopheles has somehold over him.r56 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY•Outside the Nine Hells, Hutijin is a relativelyobscure figure, known only to the most learned in-fernal scholars. He has no cults of his own, and hisservants are few in number. The reason is simple:Hutijin hates mortals. When summoned from theHells, he repays the instigator with a long and ago-nizing death.Mephistopheles forbids Hutijin from makingtoo many forays into the Material Plane , since theduke's absence leaves him vulnerable to his rivals.Other archdevils know how much Hutijin despisesmortals and have secretly disseminated the meansto call him from the Nine Hells in the hope ofdistracting the archdevil long enough for them toassail Mephistopheles. Hutijin sends devils into theMaterial Plane to eradicate mention of his nameand destroy those who have learned of him, but thesummonings still occur. When called from his post,he negotiates as quickly as he can, usually closing adeal with little cost to the summoner. However, oncethe deal has been fulfilled, Hutijin repays the inter-ruption with death .HUTIJINLarge Fiend (Devil), Lawful EvilArmor Class 19 (natural armor)Hit Points 200 (16dl0 + 112)Speed 30 ft ., fl y 60 ft .STR27 (+8)DEX15 (+2)CON25 (+7)INT23 (+6)Saving Throws De x +9 , Con+ 14 , Wis +11Skills Intimidation +14 , Perception +11WIS19 (+4)CHA25 (+7)Damage Resistances cold; bludgeoning, piercing, and slashingfrom nonmagical attacks that aren't silveredDamage Immunities fire , poisonCondition Immunities charmed , exhaustion, frightened ,po isonedSenses truesight 120 ft. , passive Perception 21Languages all, telepathy 120 ft.Challenge 21 (33 ,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +7Infernal Despair. Each creature within 30 feet of Hutijin thatisn't a dev il makes saving throws with disadvantage .Legendary Resistance (3/Day) . If Hutijin fails a saving throw, hecan choose to succeed instead .Magic Resistance. Hutijin has advantage on saving throwsagainst spells and other magical effects.Regeneration. Hutijin regains 20 hit points at the start of histurn. If he takes radiant damage , this trait doesn 't function atthe start of his next turn. Hutijin dies only if he starts his turnwith O hit points and doesn't regenerate.ACTIONSMultiattack. Hutijin makes one Bite attack, one Claw attack,one Mace attack, and one Tail attack.Bite . Melee Weapon Attack:+15 to hit , reach 5 ft ., one target.Hit: 15 (2d6 + 8) fire damage. The target must succeed on a DC22 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned . While poi-so ned in this way, the target can 't regain hit points , and it takes10 (3d6) poison damage at the start of each of its turns. Thepoisoned target can repeat the saving throw at the end of eachof its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success .•Claw. Melee Weapon Attack:+15 to hit, reach 10 ft ., one target.Hit: 17 (2d8 + 8) co ld damage.Mace. Melee Weapon Attack:+15 to hit, reach 5 ft ., one target.Hit: 15 (2d6 + 8) force damage.Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target.Hit : 19 (2dl0 + 8) thunder damage.Spellcasting. Hutijin casts one of the fol lowing spells, requiringno material components and using Charisma as the spellcast-ing ability (spell save DC 22) :At w ill : alter self (can become Medium when changing his ap-pearance), detect magic, hold monster, invisibility (self on ly),lightning bolt, suggestion, wall offire3/ day: dispel magicTeleport. Hutijin teleports, along w ith any equipment he iswearing and carrying, up to 120 feet to an unoccupied spacehe can see.REACTIONSFearful Voice (Recharge 5-6). In response to taking damage,Hutijin utters a dreadful word of power. Each creature within 30feet of him that isn't a devil must succeed on a DC 22 Wisdomsaving throw or become frightened of him for 1 minute . A crea-ture can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns ,ending the effect on itself on a success. A creature that savesagainst this effect is immune to his Fearful Voice for 24 hours.LEGENDARY ACTIONSHutijin can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the op-tions below. Only one legendary action option can be used ata time and only at the end of another creature's turn. Hutijinregains spent legendary actions at the start of his turn.Attack. Hutijin makes one Cla w, Mace , or Tail attack.Teleport. Hutijin uses Te leport.Lightning Storm (Costs 2 Actions). Hutijin releases lightning ina 30 -foot radius, blocked on ly by tota l cover. All other crea-tures in that area must each make a DC 22 De xterity savingthrow, taking 18 (4d8) lightning damage on a failed save, orhalf as much damage on a successful one.HYDROLOTHLike the thought-stealing waters of the RiverStyx they inhabit, hydroloths filch the memoriesof creatures they attack, stealing away thoughtsfor delivery to whatever master they happen toserve. Hydroloths also savor finding lost things,especially those that have been swallowed up inthe deeps.For amphibious assaults or underwaterconflicts, hydroloths have no equal amongyugoloths. They sometimes hire them-selves out to attack and scuttle ships andraid coastal settlements.HYDRO LOTHMedium Fiend (Yugo/0th), Typically Neutral EvilAr mo r Class 15H it Po ints 135 (18d8 + 54)Speed 20 ft., swim 40 ft.STR12 (+ l )DEX21 (+ 5)CON16 (+3)Skills In sight +4, Percept ion +4Damage Vulnerabilities fi reINT19 (+4)WIS10 (+ O)CHA14 (+2)Damage Resistances col d, li ghtning; bludgeoning, piercing,an d slashing fro m no nm agical attacksDamage Immunities ac id, poiso nCondition Immunities po isonedSe n ses bl indsight 60 ft ., darkvis ion 60 ft., pass iv e Perception 14Languages Abyssa l, Infe rn al, te lepath y 60 f t.Challenge 9 (5,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +4Amphibious. The hydroloth can breathe air and water.Magic Resistance. The hydroloth has advantage on savingthrows against spells and other magical effects.Secure Memory. The hydroloth is immune to the waters of theRiver Styx, as well as any effect that would steal or modify itsmemories or detect or read its thoughts.Watery Advantage. While submerged in liquid, the hydrolothhas advantage on attack rolls.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY•ACTIONSMultiattack. The hydroloth makes two Bite or Claw attacks. Itcan replace one attack with a use of Spellcasting.Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.Hit: 16 (2dl0 + 5) force damage plus 9 (2dl0) psychic damage.Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) force damage plus 9 (2dl0) psychic damage.Spellcasting. The hydroloth casts one of the following spells,requiring no material components and using Intelligence as thespellcasting ability (spell save DC 16):At will: darkness, detect magic, dispel magic, invisibility (self onl y)3/day each: control water, crown of madness.fear, suggestionSteal Memory (1/Day). The hydroloth targets one creature itcan see within 60 feet of it. The target takes 14 (4d6) psychicdamage, and it must make a DC 16 Intelligence sav in g throw.On a successful save, the target becomes immune to thishydroloth's Steal Memory for 24 hours. On a failed save, thetarget loses all proficiencies; it can't cast spells; it can't under-stand language; and if it s Intelligence and Charisma scores arehigher than 5, they become 5. Each time the target finishes along rest, it can repeat the saving throw, ending the effect onitself on a success. A greater restoration or remove curse spellcast on the target ends this effect early.Teleport. The hydroloth teleports , along with any equipmentit is wearing or carrying, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied spaceit can see .JurBLEXCalled the Faceless Lord and the Oozing Hungerin ancient grimoires, Juiblex is demon lord of slimeand ooze, a noxious creature that doesn't care aboutthe plots and schemes of others of its kind. It existsonly to consume, digesting and transforming livingmatter into more of itself.A true horror, Juiblex is a mass of bubbling slime,swirling black and green, with glaring red eyesfloating and shifting within it. It can rise up like a20-foot hill, lashing out with dripping pseudopodsto drag victims into its bulk. Those consumed byJuiblex are obliterated.JUIBLEX'S LAIRJuiblex's principal lair is known as the Slime Pits, arealm thatJuiblex shares with Zuggtmoy (who alsoappears in this book). This layer of the Abyss, whichis also known as Shedaklah, is a bubbling morassof fetid sludge. The landscape is covered in vast ex-panses of caustic slimes, and strange organic formsrise from the oceans of ooze atJuiblex's command.Juiblex's challenge rating is 24 (62,000 XP) whenencountered in its lair.LAIR ACTIONSOn initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties),Juiblexcan take one of the following lair actions; it can'ttake the same lair action two rounds in a row:Green Slime. A green slime (see the Dungeon Mas-ter's Guide) appears on a spot on the ceiling thatJuiblex chooses within the lair. The slime disinte-grates after 1 hour.Slippery Slime.Juiblex slimes a square area ofground it can see within the lair. The area can beup to 10 feet on a side. When the slime appears,each creature on it must succeed on a DC 21Dexterity saving throw or fall prone and slide 10feet in a random direction determined by a d8 roll.When a creature enters the area for the first timeon a turn or ends its turn there, that creature mustmake the same save.The slime lasts for 1 hour or until it is burnedaway with fire. If the slime is set on fire, it burnsaway after 1 round. Any creature that startsits turn in the burning slime takes 22 (4d10)fire damage.Sticky Slime.Juiblex slimes a square area ofground it can see within the lair. The area can beup to 10 feet on a side. When the slime appears,each creature in that area must succeed on a DC21 Strength saving throw or become restrained.When a creature enters the area for the first timeon a turn or ends its turn there, that creature mustmake the same save.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 159A restrained creature is stuck as long as it re-mains in the slimy area or until it breaks free . Therestrained creature, or another creature that canreach it, can use its action to try to break free andmust succeed on a DC 21 Strength check.The slime lasts for 1 hour or until it is burnedaway with fire. If the slime is set on fire, it burnsaway after 1 round. Any creature that startsits turn in the burning slime takes 22 (4d10)fire damage.REGIONAL EFFECTSThe region containing Juiblex's lair is warped by itsmagic, creating one or more of the following effects:Acidic Water. Small bodies of water, such as pondsor wells, within 1 mile of the lair turn highlyacidic, corroding any object that touches them.Corrupted Nature. Within 6 miles of the lair, allWisdom (Medicine) and Wisdom (Survival) checkshave disadvantage.Slime. Surfaces within 6 miles of the lair are fre-quently covered by a thin film of slime, which isslick and sticks to anything that touches it.IfJuiblex dies, these effects fade over the course ofldlO days.CULTISTS OF JUIBLEXThe Faceless Lord grants its cultists special abili-ties. Lesser followers can gain the Liquid Movementtrait. The most dedicated devotees of ooze can alsogain the Slimy Organs trait.Liquid Movement. As an action, this creature can move up to20 feet through spaces no more than an inch in diameter. Itmust end this movement in a space that can accommodate itsfull size. Otherwise, it takes 5 force damage and returns to thespace where it began this movement .Slimy Organs. This creature has resistance to bludgeoning,piercing, and slashing damage from nonmagical attacks.Whenever this creature suffers a critical hit or is reduced to 0hit points, it sprays acid; each creature within 5 feet of it takesacid damage equal to its number of Hit Dice.- . ::t: , e:: $ --.-..;:-. * <..g h!.::$£ m--s -.c es - =< q:c. I ;;a #S '- - *K S:i---s-s;; 4 ffMiAjUIBLEXHuge Fiend (Demon), Chaoti c EvilArmor Class 18 (natural armor)Hit Points 350 (28dl2 + 168)Speed 30 ft., climb 30 ft .STR24 (+7)DEX10 (+ 0)CON23 (+6)INT20 (+5)Saving Throws Dex +7, Con +13, Wis +12Skills Perception +12Damage Resistances cold, fire, lightningWIS20 (+5)CHA16 (+3)Damage Immunities acid, poison; bludgeoning, piercing, andslashing that is nonmagicalCondition Immunities blinded, charmed, deafened , exhaustion,frightened, grappled, paralyzed, petrified , poisoned, prone,restrained, stunned, unconsciousSenses truesight 120 ft., passive Perception 22Languages all, telepathy 120 ft .Challenge 23 (50,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +7Foul. Any creature other than an Ooze that starts its turn within10 feet of juiblex must succeed on a DC 21 Constitution savingthrow or be poisoned until the start of the creature's next turn.Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Juiblex fails a saving throw, itcan choose to succeed instead .Magic Resistance. Juiblex has advantage on saving throwsagainst spells and other magical effects.Regeneration. Juiblex regains 20 hit points at the start of itsturn . lfit takes fire or radiant damage, this trait doesn't func-tion at the start of its next turn. juiblex dies only if it starts itsturn with 0 hit points and doesn't regenerate.Spider Climb. Juiblex can climb difficult surfaces, includ-ing upside down on ceilings , without needing to make anability check.ACTIONSMultiattack. Juiblex makes three Acid Lash attacks.Acid Lash. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 10ft. or range 60/120 ft., one target. Hit: 21 (4d6 + 7) acid dam-age. Any creature killed by this attack is drawn into juiblex'sbody, where the corpse is dissolved after 1 minute.Eject Slime (Recharge 5-6). Juiblex spews out a corrosive slime,targeting one creature that it can see within 60 feet of it . Thetarget must succeed on a DC 21 De xterity saving throw or take55 (l0dl0) acid damage. Unless the target avoids taking all ofthis damage, any metal armor worn by the target takes a per-manent -1 penalty to the AC it offers , and any metal weaponthe target is carrying or wearing takes a permanent -1 penaltyto damage rolls. The penalty worsens each time a target is sub-jected to this effect. If the penalty on an object drops to -5, theobject is destroyed. The penalty on an object can be removedby the mending spell.Spel/casting. juiblex casts one of the following spells, requiringno material components and using Wisdom as the spellcastingability (spell save DC 20) :At will: detect magic3/day each : contagion, gaseous formLEGENDARY ACTIONSJuiblex can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the optionsbelow. Only one legendary action option can be used at a timeand only at the end of another creature's turn . juiblex regainsspent legendary actions at the start of its turn.Attack. Juiblex makes one Acid Lash attack.Corrupting Touch (Costs 2 Actions). Melee Weapon Attack:+14to hit, reach 10 ft. , one creature. Hit : 21 (4d6 + 7) poisondamage, and the target is slimed. Until the slime is scrapedoff with an action, the target is poisoned, and any creature,other than an Ooze, is poisoned while within 10 feet ofthe target.-45-::s sc s;; s;;c Sf · <:::e :::, $S ==ss;;; c;;-;;;zz =¥:st ., - ti¥ s;;;s;s;; -:16 0 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYKI-RINKi-rins are noble, celestial creatures. In the OuterPlanes, ki-rins in service to benevolent deities takea direct role in the eternal struggle between goodand evil. In the mortal world, ki-rins are celebratedfar and wide as harbingers of destiny, guardians ofthe sacred, and counterbalances to the forces of evil.Ki -rins are an embodiment of good, and simply be-holding one can evoke fear or awe in an observer. Atypical ki-rin looks like a muscular stag, covered ingolden scales lined in some places with golden fur.It has a long mane and tail, coppery cloven hooves,and a spiral-shaped coppery horn just above and be-tween its luminous violet eyes. In a breeze or whenaloft, the creature's scales and hair appear to blazewith a holy, golden fire.Beyond their coloration, ki-rins vary in appear-ance based on the deity each one reveres and thefunction each typically performs in service to thatgod. Some resemble gigantic unicorns; these areoften used as guardians. Others have draconicfeatures and tend to be aggressive foes of evil.Having one horn is most common, but a par-ticularly fierce ki-rin might have two hornsor a set of antlers like those of a great stag.In many lands, common folk view ki-rins asheralds of good fortune. They consider seeinga ki-rin fly overhead a blessing and events that hap-pen on such a day especially auspicious. If a ki-rinalights during a ceremony such as a birth announce-ment or a coronation, everyone present understandsthat the creature is telling them the person so hon-ored could become a great force for good. Ki-rinshave also been known to appear at the sites of greatbattles to inspire and strengthen the side of good orto rescue heroes from certain death.Ki-rins are attracted to the worship of deities ofcourage, loyalty, selflessness, and truth, as well asto the advancement of just societies. For instance, inthe Forgotten Realms, ki-rins rally mostly to Torm,although they also serve his allies Tyr and Ilmater.Ki-rins that serve good deities go wherever they arecommanded; a ki-rin from an Upper Plane mightventure to the Material Plane on a mission, usuallyas a scout, a messenger, or a spy. A ki-rin living onthe Material Plane claims a territory to watch over,and one ki-rin might safeguard an area that encom-passes several nations.LAIR OF LUXURYOn the ce lestial plan es, ki-rins reside in lofty, ele-gant aeries fill ed with luxurious objects. On the Ma-terial Plane, a ki-rin c hoo ses a similar lo cat ion forits lair, such as atop a tall pinnacl e or within a cloudsolidified by th e ki-rin's magic. The chosen locationis almost always hard to reach, and only those mor-tals who have the tenacity to complete the dauntingjourney to a ki-rin's lair can prove themselves wor-thy of speaking with its occupant. Many of thosewho do end up pledging service to the creature.They study under its tutelage in its lair and serve asits agents in the world. These followers might travelincognito across the land, seeking news of growingevil and working behind the scenes, or they mightbe champions of their master's cause, out to defeatvillainy wherever it is found.When viewed from the outside, a ki-rin's lair is in-distinguishable from a natural site, and the entranceis difficult for visitors to find and reach . Inside, thela ir is a serene and co mfortabl e place, its ambiancea mix be tw een palace and temple. If the ki-rin hastak en cr ea tur es into its service, its lair doubl es as asacred site wherein th e ki-rin not only rests but alsoteaches of holy mysteries.CHA P TER 2 I BESTIARY r6rLA I R AC TIO NSOn initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), a ki-rin can take one of the following lair actions, and itmust finish a long rest before taking the chosen lairaction again:Create Comforts. The ki-rin conjures up one ormore permanent objects made of soft, plant-basedmaterial-including manufactured objects like pil-lows, rope, blankets, and clothing- that can collec-tively fill no more than a 20-foot cube. The objectsmaterialize 1 minute later in unoccupied spaces ofthe ki-rin's choice on the floor of the lair.Create Stone and Metal. The ki-rin conjures up oneor more temporary objects made of stone or metalthat can collectively fill no more than a 2-footcube. The objects materialize 1 minute later in un-occupied spaces of the ki-rin's choice on the floorof the lair, and the objects vanish after 1 hour.Create Wood. The ki-rin conjures up one or morepermanent objects made of wood, or similarlyhard plant-based material, that can collectively fillno more than a 10-foot cube. The objects materi-alize 1 minute later in unoccupied spaces of theki-rin's choice on the floor of the lair.KI - RINLarge Celestial, Typicall y Lawful GoodArmor Class 20 (natural armor)Hit Po ints 153 (18dl0 + 54)Speed 60 ft., fly 120 ft. (hover)STR21 (+5)DEX16 (+3)CON16 (+3)INT19 (+4)Skills Perception +9, Insight +9 , Religion +8Damage Immunities poisonCo ndition Immunities poisonedWIS20 (+5)CHA20 (+5)Senses darkvision 120 ft. , truesight 30 ft., passive Perception 19Languages all, telepathy 120 ft.Challenge 12 (8 ,400 XP) Proficiency Bonus +4Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the ki-rin fails a saving throw,it can choose to succeed instead.Magic Resistance. The ki-rin has advantage on saving throwsagainst spells a nd other magical effects .ACTIONSMultiattack. The ki-rin makes two Hoof attacks and one Hornattack, or it makes two Sacred Fire attacks .162 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYREGIO NA L EFFECTSA ki-rin's Celestial nature transforms the regionaround its lair. Any of the following magical effectsis possible for travelers to encounter in the vicinity:Blessed Nature. Beasts, Plants, and Celestialswithin 3 miles of the ki-rin's lair grow more vigor-ous as they evolve toward an idealized form. Suchcreatures are rarely aggressive toward others thataren't normally prey.Controlled Weather. A ki-rin can cast controlweather while it is within 3 miles of its lair. Thespell's point of origin is always the point outdoorsclosest to the center of its lair. The ki-rin doesn'tneed to maintain a clear path to the sky or to con-centrate for the change in weather to persist.Pure Waters. Water flows pure within 3 miles of aki-rin's lair. Any purposeful corruption of the wa-ter lasts for no longer than 3 minutes .Realm of Respite. Curses, diseases, and poisons oncreatures are suppressed when those creaturesare within 3 miles of the lair, unless the creaturesare Aberrations, Fiends, or Undead.Safe Descents. Within 3 miles of the lair, windsbuoy creatures that fall due to no act of the ki-rinor its allies. Such creatures descend at a rate of 60feet per round and take no falling damage . Aberra-tions, Fiends, and Undead don't gain this benefit,falling as normal.When the ki-rin dies, all these effects disappear im-mediately, although the invigorating effect on floraand fauna remains for 3 years.Hoof Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach l 5 ft., one target.Hit: 10 (2d4 + 5) force damage.Horn. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) radiant damage.Sacred Fire. Ranged Spell Attack: +9 to hit, range 120 ft., onetarget. Hit: 18 (3d8 + 5) radiant damage.Spel/casting. The ki-rin casts one of the following spells, requir-ing no material components and using Wisdom as the spell-casting ability (spell save DC 17):At will: light , major image (6th-level version), thaumaturgy3/day each: cure wounds, dispel magic, lesser restoration, sendingl /day each: banishment, calm emotions, create food and water,greater restoration, plane shift, protection from evil and good ,revivify , wind walkLEGENDARY ACTIONSThe ki-rin can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the op-tions below. CYnly one legendary action option can be used ata time and only at the end of another creature's turn . The ki-rinregains spent legendary actions at the start of it s turn.Move. The ki-rin moves up to half it s speed without provokingopportunity attacks.Smite. The ki-rin makes one Hoof, Horn, or Sacred Fire attack.KOBOLD DRAGONSHIELDKobold dragonshi elds a re champions of their peo-ple. Almost all dragonshi elds begin life as normalkobolds, then ar e chos en by a dragon and investedwith power for the purpo se of prot e cting the drag-on's eggs, but once every few ye ars a kobold hatcheswith an innat e version of the dragonshield's abili-ties. In either c ase, a dragonshield is skilled at hand-to-hand combat and bears a shie ld made of dragonscales, as we ll as scars from de sp erate fights.Dr a gonshields know th ey have a place of honoramong thos e who vene ra te dra gons , but- being ko-bolds at h ea rt- most of them fee l unworth y of theirstatu s and ar e de sp e rat e to prove the ms e lv es de-serving of it. But they a ls o have the ability to rally inthe fa ce of ce rt a in d ea th , inspirin g oth e rs to followthem into battle.Small Dragon, An y AlignmentArmor Class 15 (lea t he r, s hiel d)Hit Points 44 (8 d 6 + 16)Speed 20 ft.STR12 (+ l)DEX15 (+2)Skills Percept ion +lCON14 (+ 2)INT8 (-1)WIS9 (- 1)Damage Resistances see Dr agon's Resistance be lowSenses darkvis ion 60 ft ., passive Perception llLanguages Common , Dr aconicCHAlO (+0)Challenge l (200 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Dragon's Resistance. The kobold has re s istance to a ty pe ofdamage based on the color of dragon that in v ested it withpower (choose or roll a dlO) : l-2, acid (black or copper); 3-4,cold (silver or white); 5-6, fire (brass, gold, or red) ; 7- 8, light-ning (blue or bronze); 9-10 , poison (gr een) .Heart of the Dragon. If the kobold is frightened or paralyzed byan effect that a ll ows a saving throw, it can repeat the save at thestart of its turn to end the effect on itself and all kobolds within30 feet of it. Any kobold that benefits from this trait (includingthe dragonshield) has advantage on its next attack roll.Pack Tactics. The kobold has advantage on an attack rollagainst a creature if at least one of the kobold's allies is within 5feet of the creature and the ally isn 't incapacitated .Sunlight Sensitivity. Whi le in sun li ght, the kobold has disadvan -tage on attack rol ls , as well as on Wisdom (Perception) checksthat rely on sight.ACTIONSMultiattack. The kobold makes two Spear attack s.Spear. Mele e or Ranged Weapon Attack: +3 to hit , reach 5 ft. orrange 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (ld6 + l) piercing damage, or5 (ld8 + l) piercin g damage if used with two hands to make amelee attack.ICHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 163KOBOLD INVENTORA kobold inventor builds improvised weapons togain an advantage in combat. These weapons la stfor only one or two attacks before they break andtypically work only for the inventor, but they mightbe surprisingly effective in the meantime. The weap-ons don't have to be lethal- often one serves its pur -pose if it distracts, scares, or confuses a creaturelong enough for the inventor to kill that foe.KOBOLD INVENTORSmall Humanoid , Any AlignmentArmor Class 12Hit Points 13 (3d6 + 3)Speed 30 ft .STR7 (- 2)DEX15 (+ 2)CON12 (+l)INT14 (+2)WIS10 (+ 0)Senses darkvision 60 ft ., passive Perception l 0Languages Common, DraconicCHA8 (-1)Challenge 1/4 (50 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Pack Tactics. The kobold has advantage on an attack rollagainst a creature if at least one of the kobold's al lies is within 5feet of the creature and the ally isn't incapacitated.Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sun li ght, the kobold ha s disadvan-tage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception) checksthat rely on sight.ACTIONSDagger. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft. orrange 20/60 ft., one target. Hit : 4 (l d4 + 2) piercing damage .Sling. Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, range 30/120 ft., onetarget. Hit: 4 (ld4 + 2) bludgeoning damage.Weapon Invention . Th e kobold uses one of the following op-tions (choose one or roll a d8); the kobold can use each one nomore than once per day:1: Acid . Th e kobold hurls a fla sk of acid. Ranged Weapon Attack:+4 to hit, range 5/20 ft. , one target. Hit: 7 (2d6) acid damage.2: Alchemist's Fire. The kobold throws a flask of alchemist'sfire. Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, range 5/20 ft., onetarget. Hit: 2 (ld4) fire damage at the start of each of thetarget's turns. The target can end this damage by usingits action to make a DC 10 Dexterity check to ext in gu ishthe flames.3: Basket of Centipedes. The kobold throws a small basket intoa 5-foot-square space within 20 feet ofit. A swarm of insects(centipedes; see the Monster Manual) with 11 hit pointsemerges from the basket and rolls initiati ve. At the end ofeach of the swarm's turns, there's a 50 percent chance thatthe swarm disperses.4: Green Slime Pot. The kobold throws a clay pot full of greenslime at the target, and it breaks open on impact. RangedWeapon Attack: +4 to hit, range 5/20 ft ., one target. Hit: 5(ldl0) acid damage , and the target is covered in sl im e untila creature uses it s action to scrape or wash the slime off. Atarget covered in the slime takes 5 (ldl0) acid damage at thestart of each of its turns .r64 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY5: Rot Grub Pot. Th e kobold throws a clay pot into a 5-foot-square space within 20 feet of it , and it breaks open on im-pact. A swarm of rot grubs (in this book) emerges from theshattered pot and remains a hazard in that square.6: Scorpion on a Stick. The kobold makes a melee attack witha scorpion (see the Monster Manual) tied to the end of a5-foot-long pole. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5ft. , one target. Hit: l piercing damage, and the target mustmake a DC 9 Constitution saving throw, taking 4 (ld8) poi-son damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on asuccessful one.7: Skunk in a Cage. The kobold releases a skunk into an unoccu-pied space wit hin 5 feet of it. The skunk has a wa lkin g speedof20 feet , AC 10, l hit point, and no effective attacks . It roll sinitiati ve and, on its turn, uses its action to spray musk at arandom creature within 5 feet of it. Th e target must succeedon a DC 9 Constitution saving throw, or it retches and isincapacitated for l minute. The target can repeat the savingthrow at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect onitself on a success . A creature that doesn't need to breatheor is immune to poison automat ic a ll y succeeds on the savingthrow. Once the skunk has sprayed it s musk, it can't do soagain until it finishes a short or long rest.8: Wasp Nest in a Bag. The kobold throws a smal l bag into a5-foot-square space within 20 feet ofit . A swarm of insects(wasps; see the Monst er Manual) with 11 hit points emergesfrom the bag and roll s initiative . At the end of each of theswarm 's turns, there 's a 50 percent chance that the swarmdisperses .KOBOLD SCALE SORCERERKobold scale sorcerers have an innat e talentfor ar ca ne magi c, making them hi ghly valuablemembe rs of their communiti es. Th ese sor-cerers typically fill the role of advi so r, a ndwh en thr e at ened, a scale sor cerer las hesout with coloful magic.A sca le s or cerer who resid es in or n ea ra dragon's lair may serve as th at dragon 'sdiplomat a nd mouthpiece- anticipating th edrag on 's n ee ds , issuing comm a nds to o th e rson the dr a gon's behalf, and re porting in-formation ba ck to the dragon . Su ch scalesorcere rs often wear artificia l wings , whichare a sign of their draconi c offi ce. S calesorcerers a re just as awed by and re sp ec tful of drag-on s as othe rs who vene rat e th ese mighty cre atures ,but they kn ow that duty re quir es them not to fawnove r the ir m as ter at all tim es . Th ey a ls o und e rstandthat their fr equent proximity to their dragon mastermea ns they would probably be the first to die if th eirm as te r b eca me angry or disple as e d, so th ey fran-ti ca lly mai ntain a balance be tw ee n adoration andte rror in their behavior toward their master.KOBOLD SCALE SORCERERSm all Huma noid, Any AlignmentArmor Class 15 (natural armor)Hit Points 27 (5d6 + 10)Speed 30 ft.STR7 (-2)DEX15 (+2)CON14 (+2)Skills Arcana +2, Medicine +1INT10 (+ O)WIS9 (- 1)Senses dark vision 60 ft. , passi ve Perception 9Languages Common , DraconicCHA14 (+2)Challenge l (200 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Pack Tactics. The kobo ld has ad vanta ge o n an attac k rollag ain st a creature if at least one of the kobold 's allies is within5 fe et of the creature a nd the all y isn't incapacitated.Sunlight Se ns itivity. While in sun light, the kobo ld has disad-vantage on attack rol ls, as we ll as on Wisdom (Perception)ch ec ks that rel y on sight.ACTIONSMultia tt ac k. The kobold makes two Dagger or Chromatic Boltattacks. It can replace one attack with a use of Spellcasting.Dagg er. Mefee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft.or range 20/60 ft., one target . Hi t: 4 (1d4 + 2) piercing damage.Chr omatic Bo lt. Ranged Spell Attack: +4 to hit, range 60 feet,one target . Hit: 9 (2d6 + 2) of a type of the kobo ld's choice:ac id , cold , fire , lightning, po ison , or thunder.Sp ellcasting. The kobo ld casts one of the follo w in g spells,requ iring no material components and using Ch arisma as thespellcasting ability (spell save DC 12):At will: mage hand, prestidigitation2/day each: charm person.fog cloud, levitateCHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 165KORREDKorreds are unpredictable, secretive Fey withstrong ties to earth and stone. Because of their mag-ical hair and mystical understanding of minerals,they are sought after by treasure-hunting dwarvesand others who desire wealth beneath the earth.Korreds prefer to keep their own company butoccasionally consort with creatures of elementalearth such as galeb duhr (see the Monster Manual).They often gather with other korreds to perform cer-emonial dances, beating out rhythms on stone withtheir hooves and clubs. In the depths of the MaterialPlane, korreds typically flee from other creatures,but they become aggressive when they feel insultedor are annoyed by the sounds of mining.Korreds can hurl boulders far larger than it seemsthey should be able to, shape stone as though it wereclay, and swim through rock. They also gain super-natural strength just from standing on the ground.MAGICAL HAIRKorreds have hair all over their bodies, but the hairthat grows from their heads is magical. When cut,it transforms into whatever material was used tocut it. Korreds use iron shears to cut lengths of thismagical hair, then twist the strands together to cre-ate iron ropes that they can manipulate, animatingthem to bind or snake around creatures and objects.Korreds take great pride in their hair and equallygreat offense at anyone who attempts to cut it with-out permission.166 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYKORREDSmall Fey, Typically Chaotic NeutralArmor Class 17 (natural armor)Hit Points 93 (lld6 + 55)Speed 30 ft ., burrow 30 ft.STR23 (+6)DEX14 (+2)CON20 (+5)INT10 (+O)WIS15 (+ 2)Skills Athletics +9 , Perception +5, Stealth +5CHA9 (- 1)Damage Resistances bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing fromnonmagical attacksSenses darkvision 120 ft. , tremorsense 120 ft .,passive Perception 15Languages Dwarvish, Gnomish , Sylvan , Terran , UndercommonChallenge 7 (2 ,900 XP) Proficiency Bonus +3Stone Camouflage. The korred has advantage on Dexterity(Stealth) checks made to hide in rocky terrain.ACTIONSMultiattack. The korred makes two Greatclub or Rock attacks.Greatclub. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., onetarget. Hit: 10 (ld8 + 6) bludgeoning damage, or 19 (3d8 + 6)bludgeoning damage if the korred is on the ground.Rock. Ranged Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, range 60/120 ft., onetarget. Hit: 10 (ld8 + 6) bludgeoning damage, or 19 (3d8 + 6)bludgeoning damage if the korred is on the ground.Spellcasting. The korred casts one of the following spells,requiring no spell components and using Wisdom as the spell-casting ab ilit y (spell save DC 13):At will: commune with nature (as an action) , meld into stone,stone shapel/day: Otto's irresistible danceBONUS ACT I ONSCommand Hair . The korred has at least one SO-foot-long ropewoven out of its hair. The korred commands one such ropewithin 30 feet of it to move up to 20 feet and entangle a Largeor sma ll er creature that the korred can see. The target mustsucceed on a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw or become grappledby the rope (escape DC 13). Until this grapple ends, the targetis restrained. The korred can use a bonus action to releasethe target, which is also freed if the korred dies or becomesincapacitated .A rope of korred hair has AC 20 and 20 hit points. It regainsl hit point at the start of each of the korred 's turns while therope has at least l hit point and the korred is alive. If the ropedrops to O hit points, it is destroyed.KRAKEN PRIESTA krak en can s ee m godlike to folk who have facedits fury. Thos e who mistak e its might for divinepower and thos e who s ee k to a ppease the monsterthrough ven era tion are som e times rew a rd ed withpower, to serve th e reaft er as kraken prie sts .Every krak en pr iest und ergoes a ch a ng e in ap-pe ara nce that reflects th e krak en's influence, a l-though each one differs in how their reverence isdisplayed. On e kr ak en prie st mig~t have ink-blackeyes and a sucke red tentacle for a tongue, whileanother ha s a fe at ur ele ss fa ce a nd a body cove redin eyes and mouths th at dribb le seaw ater. Th esehorrific manife stations intensify when th e krake npossesses its minion to utt er dir e pronoun cements.KRAKEN PRIESTMedi um Monstrosity, Typica ll y Chaotic Ev ilArmor Class 15 (natural armor)Hit Points 75 (10d8 + 30)Speed 30 ft ., swim 30 ft.STR12 (+l)DEX10 (+0)Skills Perception +5CON16 (+3)INT10 (+0)WIS15 (+2)CHA14 (+2)Senses passive Perception 15Languages any two languagesChallenge 5 (1 ,800 XP) Proficiency Bonus +3Amphibious. Th e pries t can br eat he a ir and wa te r.ACTIONSMultiattack. Th e p ri est makes two Thu nderous Touch orThunderbo lt attac ks.Thunderous Touch . Melee Sp e ll Attack: +5 to hit, reac h 5 ft., onetarget. Hit: 27 ( 5dl0 ) thu nder damage.Thunderbolt. Ranged S pe ll Attack: +5 to hit, range 60 ft., o netarget. Hi t: 11 (2 dl0) lig htning damage p lu s 11 (2d l0)rt hu nderdamage, a nd th e target is knocked p ro ne.Spellcasting . Th e pries t cas ts one of th e fo llow in g s pe ll s,requi ring no materia l co m pone nts an d us in g Wisdom as thespellcas ti ng abi li ty (spe ll save DC 13):At wi ll : command, create or destroy water3/ d ay ea ch : co n tro l wate r, dark ness, wa t er br ea thin g, water walk1/d ay : Eva rd's bl ack te nta clesVoice of the Kraken (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). Akrake n s peaks through t he priest with a t hu ndero us vo ice au-dible wit hin 30 0 feet . Cr eatures of t he pr ie st 's choice th at ca nhea r the krake n's words (w hi ch are spoken in Ab yssal , Infe rn al,or Primor di a l) mu st s ucceed on a DC 14 Wisdo m sav in g throwor be fr ighte ned of th e priest for 1 mi nut e. A fr ig htene d ta rgetcan rep eat the saving th row at the end of each of its t urns , e nd-ing the effect on itse lf on a success .CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 167KRUTHIKSKruthiks are chitin-covered reptiles that hunt inpacks and nest in sprawling subterranean war-rens. They are attracted to sources of heat, such asdwarven forges and pools of molten lava, and carveout lairs as close to such locations as possible. Asthey burrow through the earth , they leave behindtunnels - evidence that is often the first clue to thenearby presence of a kruthik hive. Kruthiks alsomake use of preexisting underground chambers, in-corporating them into their lairs when they can.Kruthiks communicate with one anotherthrough a series of hisses and chittering noises.These sounds can often be heard in advance ofa kruthik attack. Whenever their lair is invaded,kruthik guards send out an alarm by rapidlytapping the stone floor with their sharp legs.In addition to having an acute sense ofsmell, kruthiks can se e in the dark and candetect vibrations in the earth around them.They take the scent of their own dead as awarning and avoid areas where many other kruth-iks have died. Slaying a sufficient number of kruth-iks in one area might cause the remaining hivemembers to move elsewhere.Although they can feed on carrion, kruthiks pre-fer live prey. They kill enem ies by impaling themon their spiked limbs, then grind up the flesh andbones with mandibles strong enough to chew rock.When several kruthiks gang up on a single foe , theybecome frenzied and eve n more lethal.Kruthiks abide the presence of Constructs, El-ementals, Oozes, and Undead, and they use suchcreatures to help guard their hive. They are smartenough to barricade some tunnels and dig new onesthat keep their neighbors away from their eggs.YOUNG KRUTHIKKruthiks hatch from eggs laid by female adults.Each egg is about the size of an adult human's h eadand hatches within a month. Tiny kruthik hatch-lings are harmless and rarely stray far from thenest. They feed primarily on offal and one another.Within a month, the survivors become young kruth-iks large enough to hunt and defend themselves.168 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYYOUNG KRUTHIKSmall Monstrosity, Unali gnedArmor Class 16 (natural armor)Hit Points 9 (2d6 + 2)Speed 30 ft. , burrow 10 ft ., climb 30 ft .STR13 (+l)DEX16 (+3)Skills Perception +4CON13 (+l)INT4 (-3)WIS10 (+ O)Senses darkvision 30 ft., tremorsense 60 ft .,passive Perception 14Languages KruthikCHA6 (-2 )Challenge 1/8 (25 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Pack Tactics. The kruthik has advantage on an attack rollagainst a creature if at least one of the kruthik's allies is within5 feet of the creature and the ally isn't incapac it ated.Tunneler. The kruth ik can burrow through solid rock at halfits burrowing speed and leaves a 21/z-foot-diameter tunnelin it s wake.ACTIONSStab. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, rea ch 5 ft., one target.Hit: 5 (ld4 + 3) piercing damage.f.>::21 d?S?i - f.::::==: < " _:::;:::::=_:::== - -- -ADULT KRUTHIKMedium Mon st ro sity, UnalignedArmor Class 18 (natural armor)Hit Points 39 (6d8 + 12)Speed 40 ft ., burrow 20 ft ., climb 40 ft.STR15 (+2)DEX16 (+3)Skills Perception +5CON15 (+2)INT7 (-2)WIS12 (+l)Senses darkvision 60 ft. , tremorsense 60 ft. ,passive Perception 15Languages KruthikCHA8 (-1)Challenge 2 (450 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Pack Tactics. The kruthik has advantage on an attack rollagainst a creature if at least one of the kruthik 's allies is within5 feet of the creature and the ally isn't incapacitated .Tunneler. The kruthik can burrow through solid rock at halfits burrowing speed and leaves a 5-foot-diameter tunnelin its wake.ACTIONSMultiattack. The kruthik makes two Stab or Spike attacks .Stab . Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.Hit : 6 (ld6 + 3) piercing damage.Spike. Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, range 20/60 ft ., onetarget. Hit: 5 (ld4 + 3) piercing damage .# I•ADULT KRUTHIKIt takes six months of steady eating for a youngkruthik to re ach adult size. Th e natural life span ofan adult kruthik is roughly seven years.Adult kruthiks grow spiky protrusions on theirlegs and can fling these dagger-sized spikes at ene-mies beyond the reach of their claws.KRUTHIK HIVE LORDA hive lord rules each kruthik hive. When the hivelord dies, th e surviving members of the hive aban-don their lair and search for a new one. When asuitable location is found, the largest kruthik in thehive undergoes a metamorphosis, forming a cocoonaround itself and emerging several w ee ks later asa hive lord-a bigger and smart er kruthik with theability to spray digestive acid from its maw. Thehive lord claims the largest chamber of th e lair andke eps several adult kruthiks nearby as bodyguards.6 p.., ;;;;+t¥?%&5%- xz & t - s; - - - ;;;.z- s:::KRUTHIK HIVE LORDLarge Monstrosity , UnalignedArmor Class 20 (natural armor)Hit Points 102 (12dl0 + 36)Speed 40 ft ., burrow 20 ft. , climb 40 ft.STR19 (+4)DEX16 (+3)Skills Perception +8CON17 (+3)INT10 (+0)WIS14 (+2)Senses darkvision 60 ft ., tremorsense 60 ft .,passive Perception 18Languages KruthikCHA10 (+0)Challenge 5 (1,800 XP) Proficiency Bonus +3;z.oPack Tactics. The kruthik has advantage on an attack rollagainst a creature if at least one of the kruthik's allies is within5 feet of the creature and the ally isn 't incapacitated.Tunneler. The kruthik can burrow through solid rock at halfits burrowing speed and leaves a 10 -foot-diameter tunnelin its wake.ACTIONSMultiattack. The kruthik makes two Stab or Spike attacks.Stab. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 10 ft ., one target.Hit: 9 (ldl0 + 4) piercing damage .Spike. Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, range 30/120 ft. , onetarget. Hit: 7 (ld6 + 4) piercing damage. 'Acid Spray (Recharge 5-6). The kruthik sprays acid in a 15 -footcone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 14 De xteritysaving throw, taking 22 (4dl0) acid damage on a failed save, orhalf as much damage on a successful one.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 169LEUCROTTAA leucrotta is what you would get if you tookthe head of a giant badger, the legs of adeer, and the body of a large hyena, thenput them together and reanimated themwith demon ichor without bothering tocover up the stink of death.The first leucrottas came into be -ing alongside so me gnolls duringthe rampages ofYeenoghu(app ea rs in this book) on theMaterial Plane. While many ofthe hye nas that ate Yeenoghu'skills transformed into gnolls,others und er w en t more bi-zarre c hang es; leucro ttas werethe most num erous of thes e.As clever as it is cruel, aleucrotta lov es to d ece ive, torture, and kill. Crea-tures who venerate Yeenoghu- particularly hisgno ll followe rs -v iew leucrottas with great r es pec t.Although a leucrotta is unlike ly to lead a gnoll warband, it can influence the lea der and might agree tocarry the leader into battle and offer advice duringthe fight. Followers ofYeenoghu also see leucrottasas a form of entertainment. They enjoy watching ale u crotta work almost as much as they like doingtheir own killing, since leucrottas are meticulous intheir cruelty and able to draw out kills for better andlong er sport. And when there are no victims to behad, a leucrotta can mimic the delightful sq u eals ofa suffering victim.A leucrotta is so lo athsome that few outside ofits own kind can stand to be around one for long.Its horrific, hodgepodge body oozes a foul stench.This reek is outdone only by the creature's breath,which issues from a maw that drips fluid corruptedwith rot and digestive juices. In place of fangs, aleucrotta has bony ridges as hard as steel that cancrush bones and lacerate flesh. These plates are sotough that a le ucrotta can use them to peel plate ar-mor away from the body of a slain knight.A leucrotta's stench would normally warn awayprey long before the creature could attack. It hastwo natural capabilities, however, that give it anadvantage. First, a leucrotta's tracks are nearlyimpossible to distinguish from those of commondeer. Second, it can duplicate th e call or the vocalexpress ions of just about any creature it has h ear d.The monster uses its mimicry to lur e in potentialvictims, then attacks while they ar e confused or un -aware of th e actual threat.170 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYLEUCROTTALarg e Monstrosity, Typically Chaotic EvilAr mo r Class 14 (natura l armor)Hit Points 67 (9d l0 + 18)Speed 50 ft.STR18 (+ 4)DEX14 (+2)CON15 (+2)INT9 (- 1)Skills Deception +2, Perception +5•WIS12 (+l )Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 15Languages Abyssal, Gnol lCHA6 (- 2)Challenge 3 (7 00 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Mimicry. The leucrotta can mimic Beast soun ds and Hum anoidvo ic es. A creature that hears the so und s can tell th ey are imita-tions on ly with a successfu l DC 14 Wisdom (Insight) check.Stench. An y creat ure other than a leu crotta or gnoll that startsits turn wi thin 5 feet of the leucrotta must succeed on a DC 12Constitution saving th row or be poisoned until the start of thecreature 's ne xt turn. On a successful sav in g thro w, the creatureis immune to the Stench of all leucrotta s for 1 hour.ACTIONSMultiattack. The leucrotta makes one Bite attack and oneHooves attack.Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft ., one target.Hit : 8 (1 d8 + 4) piercing damage_ If the leucrotta scores a criti-cal hit, it rolls the damage dice three tim es, instead of tw ic e.Hooves. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) bludgeoning damage_BONUS ACTIONSKicking Retreat. Immediately after the leucrotta makes aHooves attack, it takes the Di sengage action.LEVIATHANA leviathan is an immense creature that acts as aforce of nature , dragging ships down to the ocean'sdepths and washing away coastal settlements.When called forth, a leviathan arises from a largebody of water and takes on the form of a gigan-tic serpent.Usually found only on the Elemental Plane ofWater, a leviathan sometimes swims through a por-tal to another world, where tritons, sea elves, andother aquatic folk attempt to contain it. Nihilisticcults have also been known to perform arduousrituals to summon a leviathan to a world, with theaim of using the creature to destroy coastal commu-nities. Those cultists often consider it a blessing to •drown themselves in the elemental's waters.LEVIATHANGargantuan Elem ental, Typicall y NeutralArmor Class 17Hit Points 328 (l 6d20 + 160)Speed 40 ft ., swim 120 ft.STR27 (+8)DEX24 (+7)CON30 (+10)Saving Throws Wis +10, Cha +9INT2 (-4)WIS18 (+4)CHA17 (+3)Damage Resistances bludgeoning , piercing, and slashing fromnonmagical attacksDamage Immunities acid, poisonCondition Immunities exhaustion , grappled , paralyzed,petrified, poisoned , prone , restrained , stunnedSenses darkvision 60 ft ., passive Perception 14Languages-Challenge 20 (25,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +6Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the leviathan fails a savingthrow, it can choose to succeed instead .Partial Freeze. If the leviathan takes 50 cold damage or moreduring a s ingle turn, the leviathan partially freezes; until theend of its next turn , its speeds are reduced to 20 feet, and itmakes attack rolls with disadvantage .Siege Monster. The leviathan deals double damage to objectsand struct ures.Water Form. The levia than can enter a hostile creature's spaceand stop there. It can move through a space as narrow as linch wide wit hout squeezing.-.Multiattack. The leviathan makes one Slam attack and oneTail attack.Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 20 ft., one tar-get. Hit : 21 (2dl2 + 8) bludgeoning damage plus l3 (2dl2)acid damage.Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 20 ft. , one tar-get . Hit : 19 (2dl0 + 8) bludgeoning damage plus 10 (3d6)acid damage.Tidal Wave (Recharge 6) . The leviathan magically creates awave of water that extends from a point it can see with in 120feet of itself. The wave is up to 250 feet long, up to 250 feet tall,and up to 50 feet wide. Each creature in the wave must make aDC 24 Strength saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes45 (7dl2) bludgeoning damage and is knocked prone. On asuccessful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn'tknocked prone. The water spreads out across the ground in alldirections, extinguishing unprotected flames in its area andwithin 250 feet of it, and then it vanishes.LEGENDARY ACTIONSThe leviat han can take 3 legendar y actions, choosing from theoptions below. Only one legendar y action option can be usedat a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The le-v iathan regain s spent legendary actions at the start of its turn.Move. The le viathan moves up to its speed .Slam (Costs 2 Actions). The leviathan makes one Slam attack.ICHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 171Medium Humanoid, Any AlignmentArmor Class 16 (Unarmored Defense)Hit Points 60 (lld8 + ll)Speed 40 ft.STRll (+0)DEX17 (+3)CONl3 (+l)INTll (+0)Skills Acrobatics +5, Insight +5 , Stealth +5Senses passive Perception 13WIS16 (+3)Languages any one language (usually Common)CHA10 (+0)Challenge 3 (700 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Unarmored Defense. While the adept is wearing no armor andwielding no shield, its AC includes its Wisdom modifier.ACTIONSMultiattack. The adept makes three Unarmed Strike attacks orfive Dart attacks.Unarmed Strike. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft. ,one target. Hit: 7 (ld8 + 3) bludgeoning damage. Once perturn, the adept can cause one of the following additional effects(choose one or roll a d4): ..1-2: Knock Down. Th e target must succeed on a DC l3 Dexter-ity saving throw or be knocked prone.3-4: Push. The target mu st succeed on a DC l3 Strengthsaving throw or be pushed up to l 0 feet directly away fromthe adept.Dart. Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, range 20/60 ft., one tar-get. Hit: 5 (ld4 + 3) piercing damage.REACTIONSDeflect Missile. In response to being hit by a ranged weaponattack, the adept deflects the missile. The damage it takes fromthe attack is reduced by ldl0 + 3. If the damage is reduced to 0,the adept catches the missile if it's small enough to hold in onehand and the adept has a hand free.I72 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYMARTIAL ARTS ADEPTMartial arts adepts are disciplined monks withextensive training in hand-to-hand combat. Someprotect monasteries; others travel the world seekingenlightenment or new forms of combat to master. Afew become bodyguards, trading their combat prow-ess and loyalty for food and lodging.Some martial artists adorn themselves withtattoos to honor inspirations or instructors, or tomemorialize profound lessons, triumphs , or defeats.You may roll on the Martial Arts Adept Tattoos tableto determine what sort of tattoo an adept bears.MARTIAL ARTS ADEPT TATTOOSd8 Tattoo234s678Patterning on the arms that make them look asthough they were made of marble or graniteColorful dragon scalesCollage of playful Elemental or Fe y creaturesConstellation s on the palm of each handPassage from a fighting manualBeautiful but poisonous flower sTwo couatls swirling around each other, ren-dered in metallic inkDetailed landscape depicting natural beaut yMARUTLarge Construct (Inevitable), Typically Lawful NeutralArmor Class 22 (natural armor)Hit Points 432 (32dl0 + 256)Speed 40 ft ., fly 30 ft . (hover)STR28 (+9)DEX12 (+l)CON26 (+8)INT19 (+ 4)Saving Throws Int+ 12, Wis +l 0, Cha +12WIS15 (+2)CHA18 (+4)Skills Insight+ 10 , Intimidation +12, Perception +10Damage Resistances thunder; bludgeoning, piercing, andslashing from nonmagical attacksDamage Immunities poisonCondit ion Immunities charmed, frightened, paralyzed,poisoned, unconsciousSenses darkvision 60 ft ., passive Perception 20Languages all but rarely speaksChallenge 25 (75,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +8Immutable Form . The ma rut is immune to any spe ll or effecttha t wo uld a lt e r it s fo rm .Legendary Resistance (3/Day) . If t he ma rut fa il s a saving th row,it can choose to succeed instead .Magic Res istance. The mar ut has advantage on saving th rowsaga in st spe ll s and oth er mag ica l effects .Unusual Nature. The mar ut does n't requ ire ai r, food ,drink, or sleep.ACTIONSMultiattack. The marut makes two Unerring Slam attacks .Unerring Slam. Me lee We ap on Attack: au tomati c hit , reac h 5 ft .,one target. Hit: 60 fo rce damage, an d t he target is pushed upto 5 fee t away from t he ma rut if it is Huge or sma ll er.Bla z ing Edict (Recharge 5-6) . Arca ne ene rgy em anates fromthe marut 's chest in a 60-foot cube. Eve ry c re ature in t hat areat akes 45 ra di ant damage. Eac h creature th at takes any of thi sdamage m u st succeed on a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw or bestunned until the end of the ma rut' s next turn.Plane Shift (3/Day). The marut ca st s plane shift, requiring nomaterial components an d using Intell igence as the spellcas ti ngabil ity. The mar ut ca n cas t th e spe ll norm a ll y, or it ca n cast th espe ll on an unw illin g crea tur e it ca n see within 60 feet of it. If ituses the la tt er o ptio n, th e targeted creatu re mu st succeed on aDC 20 Cha ri s ma saving th row or be ban ished to a teleporta ti oncir cl e in t he Ha ll of Co nco rd ance in Sig il.MARUTTh e nigh-unstoppable inevitables serv e a singularpurpose: they enforce contra c ts forged in the Hallof Concorda nce in the city of Sigil. P r imus , thel ea der of the modrons, cr eated maruts and other in-evitables to bring order to dealings betw ee n plana rfolk. A wide array of disparat e c reatur es, includi ngyugoloths , will ente r into a c ontr act with inevita-bles if ask e d.Th e Hall of C on c ordan ce is a n e mbass y of pur elaw in Sigil, the City of Doors . In the hall, pa rti eswho agr ee to mutual term s-a nd who pa y the requi-site gold to th e Kolyarut, a m ec hanical engine of ab-solute ju risprud e nce - can have their contract chis -eled onto a sh ee t of gold that is pl aced in th e chest ofa marut. From that mom ent until the contra ct is fu l-filled, th e marut is bound to enforce its terms an d topunish any party who br e ak s them. A m arut reso r tsto le tha l force only if a c ontra ct ca ll s fo r it, if the con-tr ac t is fully broken , or if th e ma rut is att acked.In evitabl es c ar e nothing fo r the spirit of ana gr ee ment , only th e letter. A ma rut enfor ces whatis written, not what was me ant by or supp ose d tobe understood from the wr iting. The Kolya rut re-je cts contra cts that contain vague, contradi ctory,or unenfor cea bl e te rms. Beyond that , it do es n'tc are wh eth er both parties und e rstand wh at they'reagreeing to.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 173Medium Humanoid, Any AlignmentArmor Class 16 (studded leather)Hit Points 84 (13d8 + 26)Speed 30 ft.STR11 (+OJDEX18 (+4)CON14 (+2)Saving Throws Dex +7, Int +3INT11 (+OJWIS11 (+OJCHA12 (+l)Skills Acrobatics +7, Athletics +3 , Perception +3, Sleight ofHand +7, Stealth +7Senses passive Perception 13Languages any one language (usuall y Common) plusthieves' cantChallenge 5 (1,800 XP) Proficiency Bonus +3Evasion. If the thief is subjected to an effect that allows it tomake a Dexterity saving throw to take only half damage, thethief instead takes no damage ifit succeeds on the savingthrow and only half damage if it fails, provided the thief isn'tincapacitated.ACTIONSMultiattack. The thief makes three Shortsword or Short-bow attacks.Shortsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., onetarget. Hit: 7 (ld6 + 4) piercing damage plus 3 (ld6) poi-son damage.Shortbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, range 80/320 ft.,one target. Hit: 7 (ld6 + 4) piercing damage plus 3 (ld6) poi-son damage.BONUS ACTIONSCunning Action. The thief takes the Dash , Disengage, orHide action .REACTIONSUncanny Dodge. The thief halves the damage that it takes froman attack that hits it. The thief must be able to see the attacker.174 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYMASTER THIEFMaster thieves are known for perpetrating daringheists. They tend to develop a romanticized repu-tation. A master thief might "retire" from hands-onwork to run a thieves' guild, spearh e ad some covertenterprise, or enjoy a quiet life of luxury.When a master thief completes a challengingheist, they often leave behind a calling card to taunttheir victims. You may roll on the Master Thief Call-ing Cards table to determine what a master thiefleaves behind .MASTER THIEF CALLING CARDSdlO2345678910Calling CardTiny, folded paper catRed bird featherRose petalFigurine made from twigs and twineSmall note with the words "It's been fun!" writ-ten on it in an ornate scriptGlass bead that looks lik e an eyePistachio shel lsTwo playing cards balanced against each other,resembling a tentWorth less coin with a bite mark in itChalk or charcoal sketch of a domino maskMAUREZHIMedium Fiend (Demon), Typ ica ll y Ch aotic Evi lArmor Class 15 (natural armor)Hit Points 88 (16d8 + 16)Speed 30 ft.STR14 (+2)DEX17 (+3)Skills Deception +5CON12 (+l)INT11 (+0)WIS12 (+l)CHA15 (+2)Damage Resistances cold, fire, lightning, necrotic; bludgeoning,piercing, and slashing from nonmagical attacksDamage Immunities poisonCondition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, poisonedSenses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 11Languages Abyssal, El vish, telepathy 120 ft .Challenge 7 (2,900 XP) Proficiency Bonus +3Assume Form. Th e mau rez hi ca n assume the appearance of anyMe dium Hum ano id it eat s. It rema in s in thi s fo rm for ld 6 days,during wh ich ti me the fo rm grad ua lly decays until , when theeffect e nd s, t he fo rm s loughs from the demo n's body.Mag ic Res istance. The ma urez hi has advantage on savingth rows again st spe ll s a nd oth er magica l e ffect s.ACTIONSMult iattack. Th e maurezhi makes one Bi te att ack and oneClaw att ac k.Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to h it , reach 5 ft ., one targe t.Hit: 14 (2 dl 0 + 3) p ie rc in g da mage. If the ta rge t is a Huma noid,its Ch ar is ma sco re is redu ced by l d4. Thi s redu c ti on lasts untilthe ta rget fini shes a short or long rest. The target dies if t hi sre du ces its Cha ri s ma to 0. It ri ses 24 ho ur s later as a ghoul (seethe Monster Manual) , unless it has bee n rev ived or it s corpsehas bee n d est roye d.Claw . Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hi t , reach 5 ft., one target .Hi t: 12 (2 d8 + 3) slas hin g damage. If th e target is a crea tureother than an Un dead, it must succeed on a DC 12 Constit uti onsavi ng th row o r be paralyzed for l minute. Th e target can re -peat the saving t h row at th e e nd of eac h of its turns, en din g th ee ffect on itself on a success .Raise Ghoul (R echarge 5-6). The maurezh i ta rgets one deadghoul or ghast (see the Monster Manua l) it can see wit hi n 30fee t of it. Th e target is rev ived with a ll its hi t po in ts.MAUREZHIWh en Doresai n, the King of Ghouls, corru pted asociety of elves, he cr eated a new sort of demon -the maurezhi - to lead packs of ghouls and ghasts(both appear in the Monster Manual) on the Mate-rial Plane.When a ma ur ezhi consumes the corpse of a Hu-manoid it has slain- a process that takes about 10minut es- it instant ly assum es th e c reature 's appear -ance as it was in li fe. The new appeara nce begins torot away over th e next few days, eventually revealingthe demon's original form.A maur ezhi is contagion inc arn ate. Its bite candrain a victim's se ns e of s e lf. If this affliction is al-lowed to go far enough, the vi ctim is infec ted withan unho ly hung er for fl e sh that ov e rpow e rs theirpe rsona lity and tran sforms th em into a ghoul.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 175I oll\ce p1AllecA u. whole bottle of 'fill\e ~tru.wberryli 11Aor from the belly of u. mu.w cAemoll\. No cl1Aewhere it mi~ht've cAevolArecA ~1Ach "'fill\cA,, b1At I'm11\0t complu.ill\ill\~ -TASHAMAW DEMONMaw demons share the cease less hunger for car-nage and mortal flesh of their master, Yeenoghu,who appears in this book. After a maw demon restsfor 8 hours, anything devoured by it is transporteddirectly into the Lord of Savagery's gullet.Maw demons appear among gnoll war bands thatworship Yeenoghu, usually summoned as part ofritual offerings of freshly slain Humanoids made tohim. The gnolls don't command the demons, whichsimply accompany the war band and attack what-ever creatures the gnolls fall upon.Because maw demons are indiscriminate in theirhunger, their stomachs contain all manner of oddi-ties in addition to the remains of their recent prey.You may choose one or more items appropriate foryour campaign for a maw demon to contain, or rollon the Maw Demon's Stomach Contents table.MAW DEMON'S STOMACH CONTENTSd8 Stomach ContentsIntact wine skin with wine still in it2 Iron skillet345678Remnants of silk banner embroidered with amoon-and-stars motifCorroded gauntlet with ske letal hand in itAssorted keysOld leather bo otBeehiveHumanoid teeth176 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYMAW DEMONMedium Fiend (Demon), Typ icall y Chao t ic EvilArmor Class 13 (natural armor)Hit Points 33 (6d8 + 6)Speed 30 ft.STR14 (+2)DEX8 (- 1)CON13 (+l)INT5 (-3)Damage Resistances cold , fir e, lig htnin gDamage Immunities poi so nWIS8 (-1)Condition Immunities cha rm ed, frigh te ned, poi so nedSenses dar kv is ion 60 ft ., pass.iv e Pe rcepti on 9Languages understands Aby ss al but can 't speakCHA5 (-3)Challenge l (200 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2ACTIONSBite. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft. , one target.Hi t: 11 (2d8 + 2) piercing damage.Disgorge (Recharge 6). The demon vomits in a 15 -foot cube.Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 11 De xteritysaving throw or take 11 (2dl0) acid damage and fall pronein the spew.MEAZELMeazels are malicious hermits who fled to the Shad -owfell to escape their mortal existence and contem -plate their misery. There the shadows transformedthem, and their bitterness made them twisted andcruel. Now hate burns in their hearts, andthey resent any intrusion into their suffer-ing, waylaying travelers who ve ntur e tooclose to th eir lairs.The evil that c orrupt ed m eaze ls also im-bued them with magical powers that allowthem to move through shadows with ease .They can step from on e pool of darkn essinto another on e, using this tal en t to am-bush pr ey. Som e times they snatch victimsaround the throat with th eir stranglingcords and then step away; oth er tim es theyferry th eir victims to isolated spots and thenleave th e hapl ess souls to the d es igns ofwhatever horrors lurk there.Any creatures meaz els draw through theshadows ar e cursed by the m ea zels' baleful magic.The curse acts as a b eac on; sorrowsworn (which ap-p ea r in this book), Undead, and other te rrors sensewhere th ey are located and d esce nd on the strandedvictims to tear them apart.MEAZELMedium Monstrosity, Typically Neutral Ev ilArmor Class 13Hit Points 35 (10d8 - 10)Speed 30 ft.STR8 (-1)DEX17 (+ 3)CON9 (- 1)Skills Percep ti on +3, Stealth +5INT14 (+2)WIS13 (+l)Senses da rkvision 120 ft ., passive Pe rce pti on 13Languages CommonCHA10 (+ 0)Challenge l (200 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2ACTIONSGarrote. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one targetof th e meazel 's size or smal ler. Hit : 6 (ld6 + 3) bludgeoningdamage, a nd th e target is grap pled (escape DC 13 with di sad-vantage). Until the grap pl e ends, the target takes 10 (2d6 + 3)bludgeoning damage at the start of each of the meazel 's turns .The meazel can't make weapon attacks while gra pplin g a crea-ture in this way.Shortsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft. , onetarget. Hit: 6 (ld6 + 3) piercing dama ge plu s 3 (ld6) ne-crotic dama ge.Shadow Teleport (Recharge 5-6). The meazel , any equipment itis wearing or carrying, and any creature it is grappling teleportto an unoccupied space within 500 feet ofit, provided that thesta rting space and the destination are in d im light or darkness.The destination must be a place th e meazel ha s seen before,but it need not be with in line of sight. If the destination spaceis occu pied , the teleportation lead s to the nearest unoccu-pied space.Any other creature the meazel teleports becomes cursed forl hour or until the curse is ended by remove curse or greaterrestoration. Until this curse ends , every Undead and everycreature native to the Shadowfell within 300 feet of the cu rsedcreature can sense it, which prevents that creature from hidingfrom them .BONUS ACTIONSShadow Stealth. Whi le in dim li ght or darkness, the meazeltakes the Hide action.CHAPTER 2 J BESTIARY 177IIMEENLOCKMeenlocks are Fey that invoke terror and seek to de-stroy all that is good, innocent , and beautiful. Thesebipeds have the h eads and claws of crustaceans,and they primarily live in forests, although theyadapt well to urban and subterranean settings.Meenlocks are spawned by fear. When terroroverwhelms a creature in the Feywild or anotherlocation where the Feywild's influence is strong, oneor more meenlocks might spontaneously arise inthe shadows or darkness nearby. If more than onemeenlock is born, a lair also magically forms. Theearth creaks and moans as narrow, twisting tunnelsopen up within it. One of these passageways serv esas the lair's only entrance , and a large central cham-ber serves as the meenlocks' den. Inside the warren,black moss covers every surface, muffling sound .A meenlock can supernaturally sense areas ofdarkness and shadow in its vicinity and can teleportfrom one darkened space to another - enabling it tosneak up on its prey or run away when outmatched.Meenlocks also project a supernatural aura that in-stills terror in those nearby.TELEPATHIC TORMENTUp to four meenlocks can telepathically tormentone incapacitated creature, filling its mind with dis-turbing sounds and dreadful imagery. Participatingmeenlocks can't use their telepathy for any otherpurpose during this time, though they can moveabout and take actions and reactions as normal.This torment has no effect on a creature that is im-mune to the frightened condition. If the creature issusceptible and remains incapacitated for 1 hour,the creature must make a Wisdom saving throw ,taking 10 (3d6) psychic damage on a failed save, orhalf as much damage on a successful one . The saveDC is 10 + the number of meenlocks participatingin the torment, considering only those that remainwithin sight of the victim for the entire hour andaren't incapacitated during it. The process can berepeated. A Humanoid that drops to O hit points asa result of this damage instantly transforms into ameenlock at full health and under the DM's control.Only a wish spell or divine intervention can restorea transformed creature to its former state.178 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYSmall Fey, Typically Neutral EvilArmor Class 15 (natural armor)Hit Points 31 (7d6 + 7)Speed 30 ft.STR7 (-2)DEX15 (+2)CON12 (+l)INT11 (+ 0)Skills Perception +4, Stealth +6, Survival +2Condition Immunities frightenedWIS10 (+0)Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 14Languages telepathy 120 ft .CHA8 (-1)Challenge 2 (450 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Fear Au ra. Any Beast or Humano id that starts its turn within 10feet of the meenlock must succeed on a DC 11 Wisdom savingthrow or be frightened until the start of the creature's next turn.Light Se nsi tivit y. Wh ile in br ight lig ht, the meen lock has dis-advantage on attack rol ls, as we ll as on Wisdom (Perception)checks that rely on sight.ACTIONSCla w. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft ., one target.Hi t: 7 (2d4 + 2) s lash ing damage, and the target must succeedon a DC 11 Constitution saving throw or be para lyzed for l min-ute. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of eachof its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.BONUS ACTIONSSh a do w Te leport (R ech a rge 5-6) . The meen lock teleports to anunoccup ied space within 30 feet of it , provided that both thespace it 's teleporting from and its destination are in dim lightor darkness . The destination need not be within line of sight.MERREGONThe sou ls of fallen so ldiers, mercenari es , and body-guards who serv ed evil without reservation oftenfind everlasting servitude in th e Nine Hells as mer-regons. Th es e faceless foot soldie rs ar e the Hells'legio nn a ires, tasked with protecting th eir infe rnalplane and i ts rul e rs against intruders.Me rregons have no individuality and hence none ed fo r faces. Every merr egon legionna ir e hasa meta l mask bolted to its head . Markings on th emas k indicate the on ly elements of the we ar er'sid ent ity that matter : the commander it serves andth e layer of th e Nine He ll s it prot ects.Be ca us e of their un shakabl e loyalty, me rr egonsform the bac kbone of ma ny devils' prot ective re t-inues. They shrink from no task , no matt er howdangero us. Unle ss order ed to fall back, th ey neverre treat from a fight .MERREGONMedium Fiend (D ev il) , Typicall y Lawful EvilArmor Class 16 (natural armor)Hit Points 45 (6d8 + 18)Speed 30 ft .STR18 (+4)DEX14 (+2)CON17 (+3)INT6 (-2)WIS12 (+l)CHA8 (-1)Damage Resistances cold; bludgeoning , piercing, an d slashingfrom nonmagical attacks that aren't silveredDamage Immunities fire , poisonCondition Immunities frightened , poi so nedSenses darkvision 60 ft ., passive Perception llLanguages understands Infernal but can't speak,telepathy 120 ft .Challenge 4 (l ,l 00 X P) Proficiency Bonus +2Devil's Sight. Mag ica l da r kness doe s n't imped e th e m e rre gon 'sda r kv is io n.Mag ic Resistance. T he merre g on h as ad v anta ge o n s avingthr o ws aga inst s pel ls and other m ag ic al effects .ACTIONSMul ti at tack. T he me r regon makes t h ree Ha lberd att ack s .Halb e rd. Me lee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit , r eac h 10 ft. , one t ar-ge t . Hi t: 9 (l dl0 + 4) s las h ing d a mage .Heavy Crossbow. Ran ged We ap on Attack: +4 to hit, ra nge100 / 400 ft., one ta rget . Hit: 7 (l d l 0 + 2) pierc ing da ma ge .REACTIONSLoyal Bodyguard. W hen a nother F ie nd with in 5 feet of t he mer-r ego n is hit by a n a tt ac k ro ll, t he m e rr ego n ca u ses it se lf to behit in s tead .CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 179MERRENOLOTHThe grim captains of the ferries on the River Styx,merrenoloths can navigate safely through the worststorms and always stay on course . Wielding fieryoars , merrenoloths strike fear into anyone whoforcefully boards their vessels.LAIR ACTIONSOn initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties) whilecaptaining a vessel, the merrenoloth can take one ofthe following lair actions; it can 't take the same lairaction two rounds in a row:Gale. The air within 60 feet of the vessel is filledwith wind. Until initiative count 20 on the nextround, that area is difficult terrain , and whena Medium or smaller creature flies into thatarea or starts its turn flying there, it must suc-ceed on a DC 13 Strength saving throw or beknocked prone.Propel. A strong wind propels the vessel , increas-ing its speed by 30 feet until initiative count 20 onthe next round.Repair. The vessel regains 22 (4dl0) hit points.REGION A L EFFE C TSA merrenoloth imbues its vessel with magic thatcreates one or more of the following effects:Unerring. The vessel always stays on course to thedestination the merrenoloth names.Unsinkable. The vessel doesn't sink even if its hullis breached.If the merrenoloth dies , these effects fade over thecourse of ld6 hours.MERRENOLOTHMedium Fiend (Yugo/0th) , Typically Neutral EvilArmor Class 13Hit Points 40 (9d8)Speed 30 ft ., sw im 40 ft .STR8 (-1)DEX17 (+3)CON10 (+0)Saving Throws De x +5, Int +5INT17 (+3)WIS14 (+2)CHA11 (+ 0)Skills History + 5, Nature +5, Perception +4 , Sur vi val +4Damage Resistances cold , fire , lightning; bludgeoning,piercing, and slashing from nonmagica l attacksDamage Immunities acid , poisonCondition Immunities poisonedSenses blind si ght 60 ft ., dark vision 60 ft .,passive Perception 14Languages Ab yssal , Infernal , telepath y 60 ft.Challenge 3 (700 X P) Proficiency Bonus +2 .Magic Resistance. The merreno loth has advantage on savingthrows against spells and other magical effects .r8o CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYACTIONSMultiattack. The merrenoloth makes one Oar attack and usesFear Gaze.Oar. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft ., one target.Hit: 8 (2d4 + 3) fire damage .Fear Gaze. The merrenoloth targets one creature it can seewithin 60 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 13 Wis-dom saving throw or become frightened of the merrenolothfor l minute. The frightened target can repeat the saving throwat the end of each of it s turns , ending the effect on itself ona success.Spellcasting. The merrenoloth casts one of the following spells,requiring no material components and using Intelligence as thespellcast in g abil it y (spell save DC 13):At wi ll: charm person , darkness , detect magic, dispel magic,gust of wind3/day: control waterBONUS ACTIONSTeleport . The merrenoloth teleports, along with any equipmentit is wearing or carrying, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied spaceit can see.MINDWITNESSLarge Aber ra tio n, Typically Lawful NeutralArmor Class 15 (natural a rmor)Hit Points 75 (l0dl0 + 20)Speed 0 ft ., fl y 20 ft . (ho ve r)STR10 (+ 0)DEX14 (+ 2)CON14 (+2)Saving Throws Int +5, Wis +5Skills Perception +8Condition Immunities proneINT15 (+ 2)WIS15 (+ 2)CHA10 (+0)Senses dark vision 120 ft. , passive Perception 18Languages Deep Speech , Undercommon , telepath y 600 ft .Challenge 5 (1,800 XP) Proficiency Bonus +3Telepathic Hub. When the mindwitness receives a telepath icmessage, it can telepathically share that message with up toseven other creatures within 600 feet of it that it can see.ACTIONSMultiattack. The mindwitness makes one Bite attack and oneTent acles a tt ack, or it uses Eye Ray three times.Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit , reach 5 ft. , one target.Hit: 16 (4d6 + 2) piercing damage.Tentacles. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 10 ft., onecreature. Hit : 20 (4d8 + 2) psychic damage. If the target isLarge or smaller, it is grappled (escape DC 13) , and it must suc-ceed on a DC l3 Intelligence saving throw or be restra ined untilthis grapp le ends.MINDWITNESSIf a beholder is stunned and brought to the brinepool of an elder brain (appears in this book), thebeholder can be converted into a mindwitness.This alters some of its eye rays and transformsfour of its eyestalks into tentacles similar to a mindflayer's. The mindwitness is psychically imprintedwith devotion to the elder brain and submission toillithid commands .A mindwitness 's primary function is to improvetelepathic communication in a mind flayer colony. Acreature in telepathic communication with a mind-witness can converse through it to as many as sevenother creatures the mindwitness can see, rapidlydisseminating commands and other information.If separated from its illithid masters, a mindwit-ness seeks out other telepathic creatures to tell itwhat to do. Mindwitnesses have been known to allywith flumphs (see the Monster Manual) and planarbeings such as demons, shifting their worldview andalignment to match those of their new masters.Eye Ray. The mindwitness shoots one magical eye ray at ran -dom (roll a d6, and re roll if the ray has already been used thisturn), choosing one target it can see within 120 feet of it:1: Aversion Ray. The targeted creature must make a DC l3Charisma sav in g throw. On a failed save, the target has dis-advantage on attack rolls for l minute. The target can repeatthe sav ing throw at the end of each of its turns, ending theeffect on itse lf on a success .2: Fear Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC l3Wisdom sav ing throw or be frightened for l minute. Thetarget can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of itsturns, ending the effect on itself on a success.3: Psychic Ray. The target must succeed on a DC l3 Intelligencesav ing throw or take 27 (6d8) psychic damage.4: Slowing Ray. The targeted creature must make a DC l3Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the target's speedis halved for l minute. In addition, the creature can't takereactions, and it can take either an action or a bonus actionon its turn but not both. The creature can repeat the savingthrow at the end of each of its turns , ending the effect onitself on a success.5: Stunning Ray . The targeted creature must succeed on a DCl3 Constitution saving throw or be stunned for l minute. Thetarget can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of itsturns, ending the effect on itself on a success.6: Telekinetic Ray. If the target is a creature, it must make a DCl3 Strength saving throw. On a failed save, the mindwitnessmoves it up to 30 feet in any direction , and it is restrained bythe ray's te lekinetic grip until the start of the mindwitness'snext turn or until the mindwitness is incapacitated.If the target is an object weighing 300 pounds or less thatisn 't being worn or carried , it is telekineticall y mo v ed up to30 feet in an y direction. Th e mindwitness can also exert finecontro l on objects with this ray , such as manipulating a sim-ple tool or opening a door or a container .ICHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY r8rMOLOCHExiled from the Nine Hells, Moloch would doanything to reclaim his position. Long ago, Mo-loch earned his place among the other archdevilsthrough the glory he won driving demons out of theNine Hells. Asmodeus rewarded him by elevatinghim to the rulership of Malbolge.For eons, Moloch ruled his domain, vying againstthe other archdevils as he sought still greater power.This animosity worked in Asmodeus's favor, sinceAsmodeus knew that Moloch's scheming helpedkeep the other archdevils in check. The arrange-ment unraveled, however, when Moloch took thenight hag named Malagard for his advisor. Her poi-sonous words gradually convinced him to attempt totopple Asmodeus. The conspiracy nearly succeeded,but was ultimately thwarted . Moloch was stripped ofhis station and sentenced to death - only the timelyuse of a planar portal allowed him to escape .Moloch wasted no time in preparing for his return.He amassed an army of devils and monsters andleft them to make final preparations for invading theNine Hells, while he ventured to the Material Planein search of an art ifact that would ensure his suc-cess. But while there, he became trapped, leaving182 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY•his armies at the mercy of his enemies. They weredestroyed in short order .Moloch was rendered nearly powerless by this fail-ure. He schemes of ways to reclaim his former sta-tus, but every time he enters the Nine Hells, he is de-moted to an imp (see the Monster Manual) and can'tregain his normal powers until he leaves. Thus, helives a split existence, sometimes plotting in Mal-bolge or other layers of the Hells and at other timeswandering the planes in search of magical might orsecrets that might help him win back his title.Rumors suggest that he can often be found inSigil, where he bargains with yugoloths to build yetanother army with which he might invade Malbolgeand wrest the throne from Glasya. Bereft as he is,he has little to offer in exchange, so he might bar-gain with mortals to gain their aid in acquiring coin,jewels, and other riches in return for knowledgeabout the Nine Hells and the other planes.Most of Moloch's cultists have switched allegianceto one of the other archdevils, but idols constructedto honor him still stand in deep dungeons , theirjeweled eyes and the remnants of power they holddrawing monstrous worshipers and unwise adven-turers into places where his foul influence remains.MOLOCHLarge Fiend (Devil), Lawful EvilArmor Class 19 (natural armor)Hit Points 253 (22dl0 + 132)Speed 30 ft.STR26 (+8)DEX19 (+4)CON22 (+ 6)INT21 (+ 5)WIS18 (+ 4)Saving Throws Dex+ 11, Con +13, Wis +11, Cha+ 13Skills De ce ptio n +13 , Intimidati on +13 , Perception +11CHA23 (+6)Damage Resistances cold; bludgeo ning, piercing, and slashingfrom nonmagical attacks that aren 't silveredDamage Immunities fire, poisonCondition Immunities charmed, exhaustion , frightened,poisonedSenses darkvision 120 ft ., pass ive Perception 21Languages all, telepathy 120 ft .Challenge 21 (33,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +7Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Moloch fails a saving throw,he can choose to succeed instead .Magic Resistance. Moloch has advantage on saving throwsagainst spel ls and other magical effects.Regeneration. Moloch regains 20 hit points at the start of histurn. If he takes radiant damage, thi s trait doesn't function atthe start of his ne xt turn . Moloch dies only if he starts his turnwith O hit points and doesn't regen erate .ACTIONSMultiattack. Moloch makes one Bite attack, one Claw attack,and one Many-Tailed Whip attack.Bite . Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 5 ft. , one target.Hi t: 26 (4d8 + 8) fire damage.Claw . Me lee Weapon Attack:+ 15 to hit, reach l O ft ., one target.Hit : 17 (2d8 + 8) force damage.Many -Tailed Whip. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach30 ft., one target. Hit : 13 (2d4 + 8) lightning damage plus 11(2dl0) thunder damage. If the target is a creature, it must suc-ceed on a DC 24 Strength saving throw or be pulled up to 30feet in a stra ight line toward Moloch .Breath of Despair (Recharge 5-6). Moloch exhales in a 30-footcube. Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 21Wisdom saving throw or take 27 (5dl0) psychic damage , dropwhatever it is holding, and become frightened of Moloch forl minute . Wh ile frightened in this way, a creature must takethe Dash action and mo ve away from Moloch by the safestavailable rou te on each of its turns, unless there is nowhereto move, in wh ich case it needn't take the Dash action . If thecreature ends it s turn in a location where it doesn 't have line ofsight to Moloch, the creature can repeat the saving throw, end-ing the effect on itself on a success.Spellcasting. Moloch casts one of the following spells, requir-in g no material components and using Charisma as the spell-casting ability (spell save DC 21):At wi ll : alter self (can become Medium when changing his ap-pearance), confus ion, detect magic,jly, major image , stinkingcloud, suggestion, wall offireTeleport. Moloch teleports , along with any equipment he iswear in g or carrying, up to 120 feet to an unoccupied spacehe can see.LEGENDARY ACTIONSMoloch can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the op-tions below. Only one legendary action option can be used ata time and only at the end of another creature's turn. Molochregains spent legendary actions at the start of his turn .Attack. Moloch makes one Bite , Claw , or Many-TailedWhip attack.Teleport. Moloch uses Teleport.Cast a Spell (Costs 2 Actions). Moloch uses Spellcasting.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYHuge Fiend (Demon), Typically Chaotic E~ifArmor Class 19 (natural armor)Hit Points 216 (l6dl2 + 112)Speed 40 ft.STR28 (+9)DEX22 (+6)CON25 (+7)INT21 (+5)WIS24 (+7)Saving Throws Str +16, Con +14, Wis+ 14, Cha+ 14Skills Perception +21CHA24 (+7)Damage Resistances cold, fire , lightning; bludgeoning,piercing, and slashing from nonmagical attacksDamage Immunities poisonCondition Immunities blinded , charmed, deafened, frightened ,poisoned, stunnedSenses truesight 120 ft. , passive Perception 31Languages Abyssal, telepathy 120 ft .Challenge 21 (33,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +7Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the molydeus fails a savingthrow, it can choose to succeed instead.Magic Resistance. The molydeus has advantage on savingthrows against spells and other magical effects.ACTIONSMultiattack. The molydeus makes one Demonic Weapon at-tack, one Snakebite attack, and one Wolf Bite attack.Demonic Weapon. Melee Weapon Attack:+16 to hit, reach 15ft. , one target. Hit: 35 (4dl2 + 9) force damage. If the target hasat least one head and the molydeus rolled a 20 on the attack184 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYMOLYDEUSThe fearsome molydeus speaks for the demon lordit serves and enforces its master's will. This demonis 12 feet tall, and its bipedal body has a slaveringwolf's head and a fanged serpent's head. Its demonlord can speak and see through the serpent head;this master also uses the molydeus to guard trea-sures, slay foes, and terrify troops into obedience.A molydeus's demon lord bestows on it a powerfulweapon that dissolves if the molydeus dies. Theweapon 's form varies depending on the creator, butthat doesn't affect the weapon's capabilities.VARIANT: DEMON SUMMONINGYou can give a molydeus the ability to summonother demons.Summon Demon (1/Day). As an action , the molydeus has a50 percent chance of summoning its choice of ld6 babaus(also in this book), ld4 chasmes, or one marilith (the chasmeand marilith appear in the Monster Manual) A summoneddemon appears in an unoccupied space within 60 feet of themolydeus, acts as an ally of the molydeus, and can't summonother demons. It remains for l minute, until it or the molydeusdies, or until the molydeus dismisses it as an action.roll , the target is decapitated and dies ifit can't survive withoutthat head. A target is immune to this effect if it takes none ofthe damage, has legendary actions, or is Huge or larger. Such acreature takes an extra 27 (6d8) force damage from the hit.Snakebite. Melee Weapon Attack:+16 to hit, reach 15 ft., onecreature. Hit: 16 (2d6 + 9) poison damage. The target mustsucceed on a DC 22 Constitution saving throw, or its hit pointmaximum is reduced by an amount equal to the damage taken.This reduction lasts until the target finishes a long rest. Thetarget transforms into a manes (see the Monster Manual) if thisreduces its hit point maximum to 0. This transformation can beended only by a wish spell.Wolf Bite. Melee Weapon Attack:+16 to hit, reach l Oft., onetarget. Hit: 25 (3dl0 + 9) necrotic damage.Spellcasting. The molydeus casts one of the following spells,requiring no material components and using Charisma as thespe ll casting ability (spel l save DC 22):At will: dispel magic, polymorph, telekinesis, teleport3/day: lightning boltLEGENDARY ACTIONSThe molydeus can take 3 legendary actions, choosing fromthe options below. Only one legendary action option can beused at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn.The molydeus regains spent legendary actions at the startof its turn.Attack. The molydeus makes one Demonic Weapon or Snake-bite attack.Move. The molydeus moves without provoking opportu-nity attacks.Cast a Spell (Costs 2 Actions). The molydeus uses Spellcasting.MORKOTHAncient and devious, morkoths are voracious col-lectors. Each one floats through the planes on astrange, mobile island, amassing the valuables,oddities, and castoffs of the multiverse in a massive,ever-growing collection.The first morkoths arose in the Astral Plane whenthe petrified body of a deity of greed and strife co l-lid ed with a remnant of ce lestial matter imbued withlife-giving magic. The collision released a storm ofchaotic energy and sent countless islands spinningaway into the void. Within some of them, bits of thegod's petrified flesh came back to life as morkoths:tentacled monstrosities brimming with maliceand greed .Morkoths are driven by greed and selfishnessmixed with a yearning for conflict. They hoard vaststores of treasure, knowledge, and captives on theirislands. Some of these prisoners are the descen-dants of people captured generations before; theymight know of no other world outside their island.A morkoth may a llow a visitor to bargain for some-thing or someone it has claimed if that visitor offersthe morkoth something it desires more. It shows nomercy, however, to those who break a deal or try tosteal from it. A morkoth knows every person andobject in its collection.A morkoth's island has the qualities of a dream-scape . It holds a jumble of objects and creatures themorkoth has collected, some of which date from for-gotten times. An island might have natural-lookingillumination, but most are shrouded in twilight, andon any of them, mists and shadows can appear with-out notice. The environment is warm and wet, a sub-tropical or tropical climate that keeps the morkothand its "guests" comfortable.Each island glides on planar currents and is safefrom most harmful external effects- one couldfloat in the skies of Avernus in the Nine Hells with-out harm to it or its residents. A morkoth's islandmight be found anywhere from the bottom of theocean to the void of the Astral Plane. Anything onor within a ce rtain distance of a morkoth's isle isdrawn with it in its journey through the planes.Thus, people from lost civilizations and creatures orobjects from bygone ages might be found within amorkoth's dominion.Some islands travel a specific route, arriv ingat the same destinations regularly over a cycle ofyears. Others a re tied to a particular place or groupof loca les, and still others move erratica ll y throughthe cosmos. Occasionally, a morkoth learns to directits island's movement.A MoRKOTH's LAIRA morkoth claims dominion over an entire island,and it also maintains a central sanctum on thatisle. This lair is most often a twisted network ofnarrow tunnels that connect several undergroundch ambers, although other structural forms mightbe incorporated. The morkoth dwells among thecr eatures and objects it prizes most in a spaciousvault at the center of the warren, where the celestialfragments that make up the island's core are alsolo cated. Sections of the lair and its center mightbe kept dry to better protect and preserve col-lected objects and creatures, but most of the lair isunderwater.A morkoth encountered in its lair has a challengerating of 12 (8,400 XP).LAIR ACTIONSOn initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), themorkoth can take one of the following lair actions:Cast a Spell. The morkoth casts darkness, dispelmagic, or misty step, using Intelligence as its spell-cast in g ability and without expending a spell slot.Hypnotize. The morkoth uses its Hypnosis action,originating at a point within 120 feet of itself. Itdoesn't need to see the effect's point of origin.CHAPTER 2 I BEST I ARY 185/REGIONAL EFFECTSThe island surrounding a morkoth's lair is warpedby the creature's presence , creating the follow-ing effects:Alter Water. With a thought (no action required),the morkoth can initiate a change in the waterwithin its lair that takes effect 1 minute later. Thewater can be as breathabl e and clear as air, orit can be normal water (ranging in clarity frommurky to clear).Locate Creatures and Objects. The morkoth isaware of any new arrival, whether an object ora creature, on its island or in its sanctum. As anaction, the morkoth can locate any one creatureor object on the island. Visitors to the island feelas though they are being watched, even whenthey aren 't.Lost Possessions. Each tim e a creature that hasb ee n on the island for less than a year finishesa short or long rest , it must make a DC 10 Intel-ligence saving throw. On a failure, the creaturehas misplaced one possession (chosen by theplaye r, if the creature is that player's character).The possession remains nearby but concealedfor a short time, so it can be recovered with aMORKOTHLarge Aberration , Typically Chaotic EvilArmor Class 17 (natural armor)Hit Points 165 (22dl0 + 44)Speed 25 ft. , swim 50 ft .STR14 (+2)DEX14 (+2)CON14 (+2)INT20 (+5)Saving Throws Dex +6, Int +9, Wis +6WIS15 (+2)CHA13 (+l)Skills Arcana +9 , History +9, Perception+ 10, Stealth +6Senses blindsight 30 ft ., darkvision 120 ft., passivePerception 20Languages telepathy 120 ft.Challenge 11 (7,200 XP) Proficiency Bonus +4Amphibious. The morkoth can breathe air and water.ACTIONSMultiattack. The morkoth makes either two Bite attacks andone Tentacles attack or three Bite attacks.Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one tar-get. Hit: 9 (2d6 + 2) slashing damage plus 10 (3d6) psy-chic damage.Tentacles. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 15 ft. , onetarget. Hit: 15 (3d8 + 2) bludgeoning damage , and the target isgrappled (escape DC 14) if it is a Large or smaller creature. Un-til this grapple ends , the target is restrained and takes 15 (3d8186 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYsuccessful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check. Anobject that is misplaced but not recovered ends upin the morkoth's lair 1 hour later. If the creaturelater goes to the morkoth's lair, its lost posses-sions stand out in its perception and are easilyrecovered.Supernatural Lure. Entrances to the morkoth'slair have an enchantment that the morkoth canactivate or suppress at any time while it's in its lairand not incapacitated. Any creature within 30 feetof such an entrance and able to se e it must make aDC 15 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, thecreature feels an intense urge to use its movementon each of its turns to enter the lair and to movetoward the morkoth's location (the target doesn'trealize it's heading toward a creature). The targetmoves toward the morkoth by the most directroute. As soon as it can see the morkoth, the tar-get can repeat the saving throw, ending the effecton itself on a success. It can also repeat the savingthrow at the end of each of its turns and everytime it takes damage.If the morkoth dies, these regional effects endimmediately.+ 2) bludgeoning damage at the start of each of its turns, andthe morkoth can't use its tentacles on another target.Hypnosis. The morkoth projects a 30-foot cone of magicalenergy. Each creature in that area must make a DC 17 Wisdomsaving throw. On a failed save, the creature is charmed by themorkoth for l minute. While charmed in this way , the targettries to get as close to the morkoth as possible, using its ac-tions to Dash until it is within 5 feet of the morkoth. A charmedtarget can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of itsturns and whenever it takes damage, ending the effect on itselfon a success . If a creature's saving throw is successful or theeffect ends for it, the creature has advantage on saving throwsagainst the morkoth's Hypnosis for 24 hours .Spellcasting. The morkoth casts one of the following spells,requiring no material components and using Intelligence as thespellcasting ability (spell save DC 17):At will: detect magic, mage hand3/day each: darkness, dimension door, dispel magic, lightningbolt, sendingREACTIONSSpell Reflection. If the morkoth makes a successful savingthrow against a spell or a spell attack misses it, the morkothcan choose another creature (including the spellcaster) it cansee within 120 feet of it. The spell targets the chosen creatureinstead of the morkoth. If the spell forced a saving throw, thechosen creature makes its own save. If the spell was an attack,the attack roll is rerolled against the chosen creature.MOUTH OF GROLANTORHill giants consume spoiled food and diseased car-c ass es with as much enthusiasm as children eatingde ssert and rarely suffer for such eating habits.Wh en one of their kind becomes incapable of keep-ing down food , that giant is se en, among hill giantworshipe rs of the god Grolantor , as the ve ssel of ame ssag e from the deity.The sickened giant's compatriots se parat e thegiant from the rest of the community, often trappingthem in a cage or tying them to a post. A priest ofGrolantor visits the famished giant daily, trying toread port e nts in the puddles of bile the hill giantretches up. If the sickness soon passes, they allowthe hill giant to rejoin society. If not, the hill giant isinste ad starved to the point of desp eration so Gro-lantor's hung er can be given a mouth in the world.A mouth of Grolantor is revered as a holy embodi-ment of Grolantor 's aching hung er. Unlike a typicalsluggish hill giant, a mouth of Grolantor is thin asa whippe t, alert like a bird, and constantly twitchy.Mouths are kept perpetually imprison ed or shack-led; if they break free, they're sur e to kill anyonenearby before they're brought down or escape ona killing spr ee. The only tim e mouths of Grolantorar e set loose is during a war , during a raid againstan en emy s ettlement, or in a last-ditch defe nse ofGrolantor's faithful. When a mouth of Grolantor hasslaughtered and eaten their fill of ene mies, they passout amid the gory remains of their vi c tims , makingthem easy to recapture .MOUTH OF GROLANTORHuge Giant (Hill Giant), Typically Chaotic EvilArmor Class 14 (natural armor)Hit Points 105 (10dl2 + 40)Speed 50 ft.STR21 (+5)DEX10 (+0)Skills Perception +lCON18 (+4)Condition Immunities frightenedSenses passive Perception 11Languages GiantINT5 (-3)WIS7 (-2)CHA5 (-3)Challenge 6 (2 ,300 XP) Proficiency Bonus +3Mouth of Chaos. The giant is immune to the confusion spe ll.On each of its turns, the giant uses al l its movement to movetoward the nearest creature or whatever else it might perceiveas food . Roll a dl0 at the start of each of the giant's turns todetermine its action for that turn:1-3: The giant makes three Fist attacks against one randomcreature within reach. If no creatures are within reach, thegiant flies into a rage and gains advantage on a ll attack ro llsuntil the end of its next turn.4-5: The giant makes one Fi st attack against each creaturewithin reach. If no creatures are within reach , the giant makesone Fist attack aga in st itself.6-7: Th e giant makes one Bite attack against one randomcreature within reach. If no other creatures are within reach,its eyes glaze over and it is stunned until the start of itsnext turn.8-10: The giant makes one Bite attack and two Fist attacksagainst one random creature with in reach. If no creatures arewithin reach, the giant flies into a rage and gains advantageon a ll attack rolls until the end of its next turn.ACTIONSBite. Mele e Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft. , one creature.Hit: 15 (3d6 + 5) piercing damage, and the giant magicall y re-gains hit points equal to the damage dealt.Fist. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 10 ft. , one target.Hit: 18 (3d8 + 5) bludgeoning damage.CHAPTER 2 J BESTLARY 187NABASSUThe insatiable nabassus prowl the multiverse insearch of souls to devour. If they think they can killa creature and consume its soul, they attack- evenif that other creature is a demon, including an-other nabassu.Most other demons shun nabassus and force themto live on the fringes of the Abyss. There, nabassuspick off weaker demons or, if the situation warrants,gather in packs to take down larger prey. Some es-pecially powerful nabassus even search for demonlords' amulets.Whenever magic pulls demons from the Abyss tothe Material Plane, nabassus try to get summonedso that they can embark on a feast of souls there.A summoned nabassu seeks to break free so thatit can devour the soul of its summoner and thenfeed on the souls of whatever other creatures it cancatch. One way a summoner can avoid this fate is byproviding a steady supply of souls to the nabassu,which might persuade the demon to be coopera-tive- as long as the supply lasts.NABASSUMedium Fiend (Demon), Typically Chaotic EvilArmor Class 18 (natural armor)Hit Points 190 (20d8 + 100)Speed 40 ft. , fly 60 ft .STR22 (+6)DEX14 (+2)CON21 (+5)Saving Throws Str +11 , Dex +7Skills Perception +7INT14 (+2)WIS15 (+2)CHA17 (+3)Damage Resistances cold, fire , lightning; bludgeon ing,piercing, and slashing from nonmagica l attacksDamage Immunities poisonCondition Immunities poisonedSenses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 17Languages Abyssal , telepathy 120 ft.Challenge 15 (13 ,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +5Demonic Shadows. Th e nabassu darkens the area around itsbody in a 10-foot radius. Nonmagical li ght can't illuminate thisarea of dim light.Devour Soul. A nabassu can eat the sou l of a creature it haski lled within the last hour, provided that creature is neither aConstruct nor an Undead. The devouring requires the nabassuto be within 5 feet of the corpse for at least 10 minutes, afterwhich it gains a number of Hit Dice (d8s) equa l to ha lf the188 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYcreatu re's number of Hit Dice. Roll those dice, and increasethe nabassu's hit points by the numbers ro ll ed. For every 4 HitDice the nabassu gains in this way, its attacks deal an extra 3(ld6) damage on a hit. The nabassu retains these benefits for 6days. A creature devoured by a nabassu can be restored to lifeonly by a wish spel l.Magic Resistance. The nabassu has advantage on savingth rows against spel ls and other magical effects.ACTIONSMultiattack. The nabassu makes one Bite attack and one Clawattack, and it uses Sou l- Stealing Gaze.Bite. Melee Weapon Attack:+ 11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.Hit: 38 (5dl 2 + 6) necrotic damage.Claw. Melee Weapon Attack:+ 11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.Hi t: 28 (4dl0 + 6) force damage.Soul-Stealing Gaze. The nabassu targets one creature it can seewithin 30 feet of it. If the target isn't a Construct or an Undead ,it must succeed on a DC 16 Charisma saving throw or take 13(2dl2) necrotic damage. The target's hit point maximum isreduced by an amount equal to the necrotic damage dealt, andthe nabassu regains hit points equa l to half that amount. Thisreduction lasts until the target finishes a short or long rest. Thetarget dies if its hit point maximum is reduced to 0, and if thetarget is a Humanoid, it immediately rises as a ghoul (see theMonster Manual) under the nabassu's contro l.NAGPAMedium Monstrosity (Wizard), Typically Neutral EvilArmor Class 19 (natural armor)Hit Points 203 (37d8 + 37)Speed 30 ft.STR9 (-1)DEX15 (+2)CON12 (+l)INT23 (+6)Saving Throws Int+ 12 , Wis+ 10 , Cha +11WIS18 (+4)CHA21 (+5)Skills Arcana +12 , Deception +11, History +12, Insight +10,Perception +10Senses truesight 120 ft., passive Perception 20Languages Common plus up to five other languagesChallenge 17 (18 ,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +6ACTIONSMultiatta ck . The nagpa makes three Staff or Deathly Ray at-tacks . It can rep lace one attack with a use of Spe llcasting.Staff. Me lee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft ., one tar-get. Hit: 9 (2d6 + 2) bludgeoning damage plus 24 (7d6) ne-crotic damage.Deathly Ray . Ranged Spell Attack: +12 to hit, range 120 ft., onetarget. Hit: 30 (7d6 + 6) necrotic damage.Sp ellc ast in g. The nagpa casts one of the fo llowing spel ls, us ingIntelligence as the spel lcasting abi lity (spel l save DC 20):At wi ll: detect magic, mage hand, message, minor illusion2/ day each: fireball,jly, hold person, suggestion , wall offire1/ day each: dominate person, etherealness,feeblemindBONUS ACTIONSCorr uptio n. The nagpa targets one creature it can see within90 feet of it. T he target must make a DC 20 Charisma savingth row. An ev il creature makes the save with disa dvantage. O n afailed save, the target is charmed by the nagpa unti l the start ofthe nagpa 's next turn. On a successful save, the target becomesimmune to the nagpa's Corruption for the next 24 hours.Pa ra lys is (R ec harge 6). The nagpa forces each creature within30 feet of it to make a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw, excludingUndead and Constructs . On a failed save, a target is para lyzedfor 1 minute. A para lyzed target can repeat the saving throwat the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself ona success.NAGPALong ago, the Raven Queen cursed a caba l of pow-erful wizards for meddling in a ritual that wouldhave helped avert a war between the gods. Shetransformed them into the scabrous , birdlike crea-tures known as nagpas and rend ered them able toacquire new lore and magical powe r only from theruins of fallen civilizations and great calamities.Nagpas still fear the Raven Queen and do theirbest to avoid her and her agents. When it's impossi-ble to do so, they become cringing, fawning things,eager to please and thereby escape further attentionfrom her cold gaze. All the original thirteen remainalive, thanks to their cunning and their willingnessto do whatever is necessary to survive.Hungry to claim more power despite the Ra-ven Queen 's curse, nagpas strive to bring aboutworld-shaking destruction . From the shadows, theymanipulate events to bring about ruin. They canbring to bear an array of spells to turn other crea-tures into their agents, influencing their decisionsin subtle ways and making them unwitting accom-plices in their own destruction . Nagpas are extraor-dinarily patient and pursue several schemes simul-taneously, so if one plan goes awry, they can shifttheir focus to another. Typically, nagpas emergefrom the shadows only when they can deliver afinishing blow. They then revel in th e grand devasta-tion their plotting brought about - looting libraries,plundering vaults , and prying secr e ts of arcane loreand power from the wreckage.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 189NARZUGONPaladins who make deals with devils and carrytheir twisted sense of honor into the afterlife areespecially valuable to the archdukes of the NineHells. These narzugons act as horrific perversionsof knights errant, carrying out their masters' will.Narzugons wield hell-forged lances that shunt thesouls of any they killed to the River Styx for rebirthas lemures (see the Monster Manual). Every lancebears the marks of both a narzugon and its master.NARZUGONMedium Fiend (Devil) , Typically Lawful EvilArmor Class 20 (plate armor, shield)Hit Points 112 (l 5d8 + 45)Speed 30 ft .STR20 (+5)DEX10 (+0)CON17 (+ 3)INT16 (+3)WIS14 (+2)CHA19 (+4)Saving Throws Dex +5, Con +8, Cha +9Skills Perception +12Damage Resistances acid , cold; bludgeo~·ing, piercing, ands las hin g from nonmagical attacks that a~n't si lveredDamage Immunities fire, poisonCondition Immunities charmed, frightened, poisonedSenses darkvision 120 ft. , passive Perception 22Languages Common, Infernal, telepathy 120 ft .Challenge 13 (10,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +5Infernal Tack . The narzugon wears spurs that are part of infer-nal tack, wh ich allow it to summon its nightmare compan ion asan action.Ma gic Resistance. The narzugon has advantage on savingthrows against spel ls and other mag ica l effects.ACTIONSMu ltiattack. The narzugon makes three Hellfi re Lance attacks.It also uses Inferna l Command or Ter rify ing Comma n d.Hellfire Lan ce. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 10 ft.,one target. H it: 11 (l dl2 + 5) piercing damage plus 16 (3d l 0)fire damage. If this damage kil ls a creature with a sou l, the sou lrises from the River St yx as a lemure (see the Monster Manual)in Avernus in l d4 hours. If the creature isn't revived beforethen , only a wish spell or killing the lemure and casting trueresurrection on the creature's original body can restore it to life.Constructs and devils are immune to this effect.Infernal Command. Each ally of the narzugon within 60 feet ofit can't be charmed or fr ightened until the end of the narzu -gon's next tu rn.Terrifying Command. Each creature within 60 feet of the narzu -gon that isn't a Fiend must succeed on a DC 17 Charisma sav-ing throw or become frightened of the narzugon for l minute.A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of itsturns, ending the effect on itself on a success . A creature thatmakes a successful saving throw is immune to this narzugon'sTerrifying Command for 24 hours .Healing (1/Day). The narzugon, or one creature it touches, re -gains 100 hit points.190 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYEach narzugon claims a nightmare (see the Mon-ster Manual) as its mount. These steeds are boundby infernal tack (see below) and must respond to thesummons and commands of the spurs ' wearer.MAGIC ITEM: INFERNAL TACKWondrous Item, Legendary (Requires Attunementby a Creature of Evil Alignment)A rider binds a nightmare to its service with infernaltack, which consists of a bridle, bit, reins, saddle,and stirrups, along with spurs that are worn by therider. A nightmare equipped with infernal tack mustserve whoever wears the spurs until the wearer diesor the tack is removed.You can use an action to call a nightmareequipped with infernal tack by clashing the spurstoge ther or scraping them through blood. Thenightmare appears at the start of your next turn ,within 20 feet of you. It acts as your ally and takesits turn on your initiative count. It remains for 1day, until you or it dies, or until you dismiss it as anaction. If the nightmare dies , it reforms in the NineHells within 24 hours, after which you can sum-mon it again.The tack doesn't conjure a nightmare; one mustfirst be subdued so the tack can be placed on it. Nonightmare accepts this forced servitude willingly,but some eventually form strong loyalties to theirmasters and become true partners in evil.NEOGIA neogi looks like an outsize spider with an eel'sneck and head. It can poison the body and themind of its targets and can subjugate even be-ings that are physically superior.Neogi usually dwell in far-flung locationson the Material Plane, as well as in theAstral Plane and the Ethereal Plane. Theyleft their home world long ago to conquerand devour creatures in other realms .During this era, they dominated umberhulks and used them to build sleek, spideryships capable of traversing the multiverse.NEOGI HATCHLINGA neogi lives about a century. When an in-dividual is rendered weak by advanced age,the other neogi in the group overpower itand inject it with a special poison . The toxintransforms the old neogi into a bloated massof flesh. Younger neogi lay their eggs atop it,and when the hatchlings emerge, they devourthe old neogi and one another until only a fewof the strongest newborns are left. The survivingneogi hatchlings begin their lives under the controlof adult neogi. They must le arn about their societyand earn a place in it, and each one starts its train-ing by gaining mastery over an umber hulk.NEOGI (ADULT)The mentality of neogi is alien to many other peo-ples. Because adult neogi have the power to con-trol minds, they consider doing so to be entirelyappropriate. Their society makes no distinctionbetween individuals, aside from the ability that agiven creature has to control others, and they don'tcomprehend the emotional aspects of existence thathumans and similar beings experience. To a neogi,hatred is as foreign a sensation as love, and show-ing loyalty in the absence of authority is foolishness.Neogi mark themselves and those they capturethrough the use of dyes, transformational magic,and other markings intended to signify rank,achievements, and the identity of the individual'sleader. By these signs, neogi can identify each oth-ers' place in the hierarchy - and they must defer tothose of higher station or risk harsh punishment.NEOGI MASTERNeogi masters use magic, as a result of a pact be-tween neogi and aberrant entities they met duringtheir journey from their home world. These enti-ties- known by such names as Acamar, Caiphon,Gibbeth, and Hadar-resemb le stars and embodythe essence of evil.NEOGI HATCHLINGTiny Aberration, Typically Lawful £~iiArmor Class llHit Points 7 (3d4)Speed 20 ft., climb 20 ft .STR3 (- 4)DEX13 (+l)CON10 (+0)INT6 (-2)WIS10 (+0)Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10Languages -CHA9 (-1)Challenge 1/8 (25 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Mental Fortitude. The neogi has advantage on saving throwsagainst being charmed or frightened, and magic can't put theneogi to sleep.Spider Climb. The neogi can climb difficult surfaces , includ-ing upside down on ce ilin gs, without needing to make anability check.ACTIONSBite. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reac h 5 ft., one target.Hit: 3 (ld4 + 1) piercing damage plus 3 (ld6) poison damage,and the target must succeed on a DC 10 Constitution savingthrow or become poisoned for 1 minute. A target can repeatthe saving throw at the end of each of its turns , ending the ef-fect on it se lf on a success.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 191NEOGISmall Aberration, Typically Lawful EvilArmor Class l 5 (natural armor)Hit Points 33 (6d6 + 12)Speed 30 ft., climb 30 ft.STR6 (-2)DEX16 (+3)CON14 (+2)INT13 (+l)Skills Intimidation +4, Perception +3WIS12 (+l)Senses darkvision 60 ft ., passive Perception 13Languages Common , Deep Speech , UndercommonCHA15 (+2)Challenge 3 (700 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Mental Fortitude. The neogi has advantage on saving throwsagainst being charmed or frightened, and magic can't put theneogi to sleep.Spider Climb. The neogi can climb difficult surfaces, includ-ing upside down on ceilings , without needing to make anability check.ACTIONSMultiattack. The neogi makes one Bite attack and twoClaw attacks.Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft ., one target.Hit : 6 (ld6 + 3) piercing damage plus 14 (4d6) poison damage,and the target must succeed on a DC 12 Constitution savingthrow or become poisoned for l minute . A target can repeatthe saving throw at the end of each of its turns , ending the ef-fect on itself on a success .Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft ., one target.Hit : 8 (2d4 + 3) slashing damage.BONUS ACTIONSEnslave (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). The neogitargets one creature it can see within 30 feet of it. The targetmust succeed on a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw or be magicallycharmed by the neogi for l day, or until the neogi dies or ismore than l mile from the target. The charmed target obeysthe neogi 's commands and can 't take reactions , and the neogiand the target can communicate telepathically with each otherat a distance of up to l mile. Whenever the charmed targettakes damage, it can repeat the saving throw, ending the effecton itself on a success.192 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYNEOGI MASTERMedium Aberration (Warlock), Typically Lawful EvilArmor Class 15 (natural armor)Hit Points 71 (lld8 + 22)Speed 30 ft ., climb 30 ft.STR6 (-2)DEX16 (+3)Saving Throws Wis +3CON14 (+ 2)INT16 (+3)WIS12 (+l)CHA18 (+4)Skills Arcana +5, Deception + 6, Intimidation +6 , Perception +3,Persuasion +6Senses darkvis ion 120 ft., passive Perception 13Languages Common , Deep Speech , Undercommon ,telepathy 30 ft.Challenge 4 (1,100 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Devil's Sight. Magical darkness doesn't impede the neogi'sdarkvision .Mental Fortitude. The neogi has advantage on saving throwsagainst being charmed or frightened , and magic can 't put theneogi to sleep.Spider Climb. The neogi can climb difficult surfaces, includ-ing upside down on ceilings, without needing to make anability check.ACTIONSMultiattack. The neogi makes one Bite attack and one Clawattack, or it makes two Tentacle of Hadar attacks.Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft ., one target.Hit : 6 (ld6 + 3) piercing damage plus 14 (4d6) poison damage,and the target must succeed on a DC 12 Constitution savingthrow or become poisoned for l minute. A target can repeatthe saving throw at the end of each of its turns , ending the ef-fect on itself on a success.Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft ., one target.Hit : 8 (2d4 + 3) piercing damage.Tentacle of Hadar. Ranged Spell Attack: +6 to hit, range 120 ft. ,one target. Hit : 14 (3d6 + 4) necrotic damage, and the targetcan 't take reactions until the end of the neogi's next turn, as aspectral tentacle clings to the target.Spellcasting. The neogi casts one of the following spells , us ingCharisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 14) :At will: guidance, mage hand, minor illu sion , prestidigitation1/day each: dimension door, hold person , hunger of HadarBONUS ACTIONSEnslave (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). The neogitargets one creature it can see within 30 feet of it. The targetmust succeed on a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw or be magicall ycharmed by the neogi for l day, or until the neogi dies or ismore than l mile from the target. The charmed target obeysthe neogi's commands and can 't take reactions , and the neo giand the target can communicate telepathically with each otherat a distance of up to 1 mile. Whenever the charmed targettakes damage, it can repeat the saving throw, ending the effecton itself on a success.NEOTHELIDGargantuan Aberration, Typically Chaotic EvilArmor Class 16 (natural armor)Hit Points 232 (15d20 + 75)Speed 30 ft.STR27 (+8)DEX7 (-2)CON21 (+ 5)INT3 (-4)Saving Throws Int+ 1, Wis +8 , Cha +6WIS16 (+3)CHA12 (+l)Senses blindsight 120 ft . (blind beyond this radius) , passivePerception 13Languages-Challenge 13 (10,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +5Creature Sense. The neothelid is aware of the presence of crea -tures within 1 mile of it that have an Inte lligence score of 4 orhigher. It knows the distance and direction to each creature,as well as each creature's Inte ll igence score, but can't senseanything else about it. A creature protected by a mind blankspell, a nondetection spe ll, or similar magic can't be perceivedin this manner.Magic Resistance. The neothelid has advantage on savingthrows against spells and other magical effects.ACTIONSTentacles. Melee Weapon Attack:+13 to hit, reach 15 ft ., one tar-get. Hit: 21 (3d8 + 8) bludgeoning damage plus 11 (2dl0) psy-chic damage. If the target is a Large or smaller creature, it mustsucceed on a DC 18 Strength saving throw or be swal lowed bythe neothe lid. A swal lowed creature is blinded and restrained,it has total cover against attacks and other effects outside theneothelid, and it takes 21 (6d6) acid damage at the start ofeach of the neothelid's turns.If the neothelid takes 30 damage or more on a single turnfrom a creature inside it, the neothelid must succeed on a DC18 Constitution saving throw at the end of that turn or regurgi-tate all swallowed creatures, which fall prone in a space within10 feet of the neothe lid. If the neothelid dies, a swallowedcreature is no longer restrained by it and can escape from thecorpse by using 20 feet of movement, exiting prone.Acid Breath (Recharge 5- 6). The neothe lid exhales acid in a 60 -foot cone. Each creatu re in that area must make a DC 18 Dex-terity saving throw, tak ing 35 (10d6) acid damage on a failedsave, or half as much damage on a successful one.Spellcasting (Psionics). The neothe lid casts one of the followingspel ls, requiring no spell components and using Wisdom asthe spellcasting ability (spell save DC 16):At will: levitate1/day each: confusion,feeblemind, telekinesisNEOTHELIDA slime-covered worm of immense size, a neo-thelid is the result of the mind flayer reproductivecycle gone horribly wrong. When an illithid colonycollapses, typically after an external assault, andthe elder brain (appears in this book) is killed, the ·colony's tadpoles are suddenly freed from their fate.They no longer serve as food- and are no longer fedby their caretakers. Driven by hunger, they turn todevouring one another. Only one tadpole survivesout of the thousands in the colony's pool, and itemerges as a neothelid.Neothelids know nothing beyond their predatoryexistence. They prowl subterranean passages, usingtheir rudimentary psionic abilities to search out andincapacitate brains to sate their constant hunger ,growing ever more vicious. These creatures canspray tissue-dissolving enzymes from their tentacleducts, reducing victims to puddles of slime and leav-ing only the pulsing brains unharmed. They have noknowledge of their link to illithids, so they're just aslikely to prey on mind flayers as on anything else.Mind flayers consider neothelids dangerous abom-inations-normally they eat or destroy any tadpolesthat grow larger than a few inches in length withoutbeing implanted in a brain so they can't becomesuch threats. Neothelids are notintelligent enoughfor elder brains to detect, so mind flayers are alwaysalert for signs of their presence and organize hunt-ing parties to exterminate any of these murderousworms they learn of. ICHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 193NIGHTWALKERThe Negative P lane is a place of death, anathemato all living things. Yet there are some who wouldtap into its fell power and use its energy for sin isterends. Most individuals prove unequal to the task.Those not destroyed outright are sometimes drawninside the plane and replaced by nightwalkers-ter-rifying Undead creatures that devour all life theyencounter.One can reach the Negative Plane from the Shad-owfell in places where the barrier between theplanes is thin . Stepping onto the Negative Plane isalmost always fatal since the plane sucks the lifeand soul from creatures, annihilating most at once .The few who survive by sheer luck or by harnessingsome rare form of protective magic soon discoverthat they can't leave as easily as they arrived.Worse, for each creature that enters the plane, anightwalker is re leased to take its place. In orderfor a trapped creature to escape, the released night-walker must be lured back to the Negative Plane byofferings of life for it to devour. If the nightwalkeris destroyed, the trapped creature has no hopeof escape.Generally, a nightwalker on the Material Plane isattracted to elements of the world associated withthe creature responsible for its creation, which canprovide clues as to who the trapped creature is. Thisattraction doesn't indicate a willingness to engagewith the world, though; nightwalkers exist to makelife extinct, and they prioritize anything associatedwith the trapped creature for destruction.NIGHTWALKERHuge Undead, Typically Chaotic EvilArmor Class 14Hit Points 337 (2Sdl 2 + 175)Speed 40 ft ., fly 40 ft.STR22 (+6)DEX19 (+4)CON24 (+7)Saving Throws Con +13INT6 (-2)WIS9 (-1)CHA8 (-1)Damage Resistances acid , cold, fire, lightning, thunder;bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing from nonmagical attacksDamage Immunities necrotic, poisonCondition Immunities exhaustion , fr ightened, grappled,paralyzed, petrified , poisoned, prone, restrainedSenses darkvision 120 ft ., passive Perception 9Languages-Challenge 20 (25 ,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +6An nih ilating Aura . Any creature that starts its turn wit h in 30feet of the nightwalker mu st succeed on a DC 21 Constit utionsaving throw o r take 21 (6d6) necrotic damage. Undead areimmune to this au ra.194 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYLife Eat er. A creature dies if reduced to 0 hit points by t henightwa lker an d can't be rev ived except by a wish spe ll.Unusual Na t ur e. Th e night wa lk er does n 't req uire air, foo d,dr ink, or sleep.ACTIONSMultiattack. The nightwa lker makes two Enervating Focusattacks, one of wh ich can be replaced by Finger of Doom , ifavai lable.En e rv ating Focu s. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 15 ft. ,one target. Hit: 28 (5d8 + 6) necrotic damage. The target mustsucceed on a DC 21 Constitut ion savi ng th row or its hit pointmax imum is reduced by an amount equa l to the necrotic dam-age taken . This re du ction lasts unti l the target fini shes a longrest. The ta rget dies if its h it point maximum is reduced to 0.Fi ng er of Doo m (R echa rg e 6). The nightwa lker points at onecreature it can see within 300 feet of it. The target mustsucceed on a DC 21 Wisdom saving throw or take 39 (6d12)necrotic damage and become frightened unti l the end of thenightwa lker's next turn. While frightened in this way, the crea-ture is also para lyzed . If a target's saving throw is successful ,the target is immune to the nightwa lker's Finger of Doom forthe next 24 hours.NILBOGSmall Fey (Goblinoid), Typically Chaotic NeutralArmor Class 13 (leather armor)Hit Points 7 (2d6)Speed 30 ft.STR8 (-1)DEX14 (+2)Skills Stealth +6CON10 (+ 0)INT10 (+ 0)WIS8 (- 1)Senses da r kvis ion 60 ft ., passive Perce pt ion 9Languages Comm on, Go bl inCHA15 (+2)Challenge l (2 00 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Nilbogism. Any creature that attempts to damage the nil bogmust first succeed on a DC 12 Charisma saving throw or becharmed until the end of the creature's next turn. A creaturecharmed in this way must use its action praising the nil bog.The nilbog can't regain hit points, including through magicalhealing, except through its Reversal of Fortune reaction.ACTIONSFool's Scepter. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft ., onetarget. Hit: 5 (ld6 + 2) bludgeoning damage.Mocking Word. The nil bog targets one creature it can seewithin 60 feet ofit. The target must succeed on a DC 12 Wis-dom saving throw or take 5 (2d4) psychic damage and have dis-advantage on its next attack rol l before the end of its next turn.Spellcasting. The nil bog casts one of the following spel ls, usingCharisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 12):At will: mage hand, Tasha's hideous laughterBONUS ACTIONSNimble Escape . The nil bog takes the Disengage or Hide action.REACTIONSReversal of Fortune. In response to another creature dealingdamage to the nil bog, the nil bog reduces the damage to 0 andregains 3 (ld6) hit points.NILBOGWhen Maglubiyet conquered the goblin gods, atrickster deity was determined to get the last laugh.Although Maglubiyet shattered its essence, thistrickster god survives in a splintered form as pos-sessing spirits that cause disorder unless they areappeased. Goblins have no name for this deity anddare not give it one, lest Maglubiyet use its name toensnare and crush it as he did their other deities.They call the possessing spirit, as well as the goblinpossessed by it, a nilbog ("goblin" spelled back-ward), and they revel in the chaos a nilbog sows .Whenever goblinoids form a host, there is achance that a goblin will become possessed by a nil-bog, particularly if the goblins have been mistreatedby their betters. The possessed goblin turns into awisecracking, impish creature fearless of reprisal.This nilbog also gains strange powers that drive oth-ers to do the opposite of what they desire. Attackingthe possessed goblin is foolhardy, and killing themjust prompts the spirit to possess another goblin.The only way to keep a nilbog from wreaking havocis to treat it well and give it respect and praise.Among fey courts, the risk of attracting a nilboghas given rise to the practice of always including atleast one goblin jester. This jester is allowed to goanywhere and do whatever they please, hopefullypreventing a nilbog from manifesting. The positionof jester is much sought-after among the courts' gob-lins, because even if the jester is obviously not a nil-bog, the court must indulge their chaotic behavior.NILBOGISMA nilbog is an invisible spirit that possesses onlygoblins. When bereft of a host, the spirit has a flyingspeed of 30 feet, it can't be attacked, and it is im-mune to all damage and conditions. Acting on initia-tive count 20 (losing initiative ties), the only actionit can take is to attempt to possess a goblin within 5feet of it.A goblin targeted by the spirit must succeed ona DC 15 Charisma saving throw or become pos-sessed . While possessed, the goblin uses the nilbogstat block. If the save succeeds, the spirit can't pos-sess that goblin for 24 hours.If its host is killed or the possession is ended by aspell such as hallow, magic circle, or protection fromevil and good, the spirit searches for another goblinto possess. The spirit can leave its host at any time,but it won't do so willingly unless it knows there'sanother potential host nearby. A goblin stripped oftheir nilbog spirit reverts to their normal statisticsand loses the traits they gained while possessed. ICHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 195/:3d~ wh,gJ~~ ~~4-e~d/adde4 '?4-e .#el/4.~~~/4wn, ~~.-?n~NUPPERIBONo soul is turned away from the Nine Hells, but th etruly worthless-those whose evil acts in life arosefrom care less ness and ina ct ion more than anythinge lse-are suitable only to b eco me nupperibos.These pitiful creatures shuffle across the landscap e,driven to purposeful action only when the cloudsof swarming vermin that surround them find themprey to destroy or when a greater fiendish powerco mmands it.Individually, nupperibos are weak, but they'rerarely alone and ca n be dang e rous when gatheredinto packs. Clouds of stinging ins ects , stirges (seethe Monster Manual), and other vermin surroundthem in a terrifying, reeking sheath that tormentsany non-devil that draws near.A nupperibo knows nothing but the d es ire to de-stroy non-Fie nds . Once a nupperibo's vermin cloudsenses a pot ential meal, any nearby nupperibospursue that prey tirelessly until it or the nupperibosare slain, or some other pot en tial victim crosses thedevils' path and distracts them.Nupperibos unthinkingly obey a ny command theyreceive telepathically from another devil. This blindloyalty makes them th e easies t of infernal troop s tolead into battle, but their presence in a leg ion doesnothing to elevate its general's status.rnh CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYNUPPERIBOMedium Fiend (De~il), Typica lly Lawful E~ilArmo r Class 13 (natu ra l armo r)Hit Point s 11 (2 d8 + 2)Spe ed 20 ft .STR16 (+3)DEX11 (+ 0)Skills Perception +lCON13 (+l)Damage Resistances ac id, coldDamage Immunities fire , poisonINT3 (- 4)WIS8 (-1)CHAl (-5)Condition Immunities bl inded , charm ed, fr ightene d, poisonedSenses blindsight 20 ft. (bl ind beyond th is ra d iu s),passive Percept ion 11Languages unde rsta nds Infe rn al bu t can't speakChallenge 1/2 (1 00 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Cloud of Vermin. Any creature, other than a devil , that starts itsturn within 20 feet of one or more nupperibos must succeed ona DC 11 Constitution saving throw or take 5 (2d4) acid damage.A creature within the areas of two or more nupperibos makesthe saving throw with disadvantage.Driven Tracker. In the Nine Hells, the nupperibo can fla wless lytrack any creature th at has taken damage from any nupperibo 'sCloud of Vermin within the previous 24 hours .AC TI ONSBite. Mel ee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft ., one target.Hit: 6 (ld6 + 3) piercing damage.0BLEXESBy experimenting on the slimes, jellies, and pud -dings that infest the depths of the Underdark, mindflayers created a special breed of Ooze, the oblex-aslime capable of assaulting the minds of other crea-tures. These pools of jelly are cunning hunters thatfeed on thoughts and memories. The sharper themind, the better the meal, so oblexes hunt targetsmore likely to be intelligent, such as wizards andother spe ll casters . When suitable fare comes withinreach , an oblex draws its body up to engulf its vic-tim. As it withdraws , it plunders the creature's mind,leaving its prey befuddled and confused - or dead.When oblexes feed on thoughts, they can formweird copies of their prey to use as lures , whichhelps them harv es t even more victims for their mindflayer masters.0BLEX SPAWNAn oblex devours memories not only to sustain itsexistence, but also to spawn new oblexes. Each timeit fully drains the memories of a victim, it gains thecreature's personality-no w twisted by the oblex'sfoul nature. The more memories an oblex steals, thelarger it becomes, until it must shed a personality ithas absorbed or else become uncontrolled and er-ratic. This act spawns a new oblex.Newly formed oblexes lack the capabilities of theirolder kin. They seek only to feed on memories andgrow until they can impersonate their victims.ADULT AND ELDER 0BLEXESOlder oblexes, called adults and elders, have eatenso many memories that they can form duplicatesof the creatures they have devoured from the sub-stance of their bodies, sending these copies off tolure prey into their clutches while remaining teth-ered to the slime by long tendrils of goo. Thes e du-plicated creatures are indistinguishable from theirvictims except for a faint sulfurous smell. Oblexesuse these duplicates to lead prey into dang er orto infiltrate settlements so they can feed on supe-rior victims.0BLEX SPAWNTiny Ooze, Typically Lawful EvilArmor Class 13Hit Points 18 (4d4 + 8)Speed 20 ft.STR DEX8(-1) 16(+3)CON15 (+2)Saving Throws Int +4, Cha +2INT14 (+2)WIS11 (+0)CHA10 (+0)Condition Immunities blinded, charmed, deafened , exhaustion,proneSenses blindsight 60 ft. (blind beyond this radius) ,passive Perception 12Languages-Challenge 1/4 (50 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Amorphous. The oblex can move through a space as narrow asl in ch wide without sq ueezing .Av ersion to Fi re. If the ob lex takes fire damage, it has disad -vantage on attack rol ls and abil ity checks until the end of itsnext t urn.Unusu al Natu re. The o bl ex does n't re quire sleep.ACTIONSPs eu dopod. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., onetarget. Hit: 5 (l d4 + 3) bludgeoning damage plus 2 (ld4) psy-ch ic damage.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 1q7ADULTOBLEXMedium Ooze, Typically Lawful EvilArmor Class 14Hit Points 75 (10d8 + 30)Speed 20 ft .STR8 (-1)DEX19 (+4)CON16 (+3)Saving Throws Int +7, Cha +5INT19 (+4)WIS12 (+l)CHA15 (+2)Skills Deception +5, Perception +4, plus one of the following:Arcana +7, History +7, Nature +7 , or Religion +7Condition Immunities blinded, charmed, deafened, exhaustion,proneSenses blindsight 60 ft. (blind beyond this radius) ,passive Perception 14Languages Common plus two more languagesChallenge 5 (1,800 XP) Proficiency Bonus +3Amorphous. The oblex can move through a space as narrow asl inch wide without squeezing.Aversion to Fire. If the obi ex takes fire damage, it has disad-vantage on attack rolls and ability checks until the end of itsnext turn .Unusual Nature. The oblex doesn't require sleep.ACTIONSMultiattack. The oblex makes two Pseudopod attacks, and ituses Eat Memories.Pseudopod. Melee Weapon Atta ck: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., onetarget. Hit : 11 (2d6 + 4) bludgeoning damage plus 7 (2d6) psy-chic damage.198 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYEat Memories. The oblex targets one creature it can see within5 feet ofit. The target must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom savingthrow or take 18 (4d8) psychic damage and become memorydrained until it finishes a short or long rest or until it benefitsfrom the greater restoration or heal spell. Constructs, Ooze s,Plants, and Undead succeed on the save automatically.While memory drained, the target must roll a d4 and subtractthe number rolled from its ability checks and attack rolls. Eachtime the target is memory drained beyond the first, the die sizeincreases by one: the d4 becomes a d6, the d6 becomes a d8,and so on until the die becomes a d20, at which point the tar-get becomes unconscious for l hour. The effect then ends.The oblex learns all the languages a memory-drained targetknows and gains all its skill proficiencies .Spellcasting (Psionics). The obi ex casts one of the followingspells, requiring no spell components and using Intelligence asthe spellcasting ability (spell save DC 15):3/day each: charm person (as 5th-level spell), detect thoughts,hypnotic patternBONUS ACTIONSSulfurous Impersonation. The obi ex extrudes a piece of itselfthat assumes the appearance of one Medium or smaller crea-ture whose memories it has stolen. This simulacrum appears,feels, and sounds exactly like the creature it impersonates ,though it smells faintly of sulfur. The oblex can impersonateld4 + l different creatures, each one tethered to its body by astrand of slime that can extend up to 120 feet away. The sim-ulacrum is an extension of the ob le x, mea ning that the ob le xoccupies its space and the simulacrum 's space simultaneousl y.The tether is immune to damage, but it is severed if there is noopening at least l inch wide between the oblex and the simula-crum . The simulacrum disappears if the tether is severed .ELDER 0BLEXHuge Ooze, Typically Lawful E~ilArmor Class 16 (natural armor)Hit Points 115 (10dl2 + 50)Speed 20 ft .STR15 (+2)DEX16 (+3)CON21 (+5)Saving Throws Int +10, Cha +8INT22 (+6)•WIS13 (+l)CHA18 (+4)Skills Arcana+ 10, Deception +8, History +10, Nature +10,Perception +5 , Religion +10Condition Immunities blinded, charmed, deafened, exhaustion,proneSenses blindsight 60 ft . (blind beyond this radius) ,passive Perception 15Languages Common plus six more languagesChallenge 10 (5,900 XP) Proficiency Bonus +4Amorphous. The obi ex can move through a space as narrow as1 inch wide witho ut squeezing.Aversion to Fire. If the ob lex takes fire damage, it has disad-vantage on attack rolls and ability checks until the end of itsnext turn.Unusual Nature. The oblex doesn't require sleep.ACTIONSMultiattack. The elder oblex makes two Pseudopod attacks,and it uses Eat Memories.Pseudopod. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 10 ft., onetarget. Hit: 17 (4d6 + 3) bludgeoning damage plus 14 (4d6)psychic damage.Eat Memories. The oblex targets one creature it can see within5 feet ofit. The target must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom savingthrow or take 44 (8dl0) psychic damage and become memorydrained until it finishes a short or long rest or until it benefitsfrom the greater restoration or heal spell. Constructs, Oozes,Plants, and Undead succeed on the save automatically.While memory drained, the target must roll a d4 and subtractthe number rolled from its ability checks and attack rolls. Eachtime the target is memory drained beyond the first, the die sizeincreases by one: the d4 becomes a d6, the d6 becomes a d8,and so on until the die becomes a d20, at which point the tar-get becomes unconscious for 1 hour. Th e effect then e nd s.The oblex learns all the lan guages a memory-drained targetknows and gains all its ski ll proficiencies.Spellcasting (Psionics). The ob lex casts one of the followingspells, requiring no spell components and using Intelligence asthe spellcasting ability (spell save DC 18):At w ill : charm person (as 5th-level spell), detect thoughts3/day each: dimension door, dominate person, hypnotic pattern ,telekinesisBONUS ACTIONSSulfurous Impersonation. The ob lex extrudes a piece of itselfthat assumes the appearance of one Medium or smaller crea-ture whose memories it has stolen. Thi s simu lacrum appears,feels, and sounds exactly like the creature it impersonates ,though it smells faintly of sulfur. The oblex can impersonate2d6 + 1 different creatures, each one tethered to its bod y by astrand of slime that can extend up to 120 feet away. The sim-ulacrum is an extension of the obi ex, meaning that the ob lexoccupies it s space and the simul acrum's space simultaneously.The tether is immune to damage, but it is severed if there is noopening at lea st 1 inch wide between the oblex and the simula-crum. The simu la crum disappears if the tether is severed.ICHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 199OGRE BATTERING RAMLarge Giant, Typically Chaotic EvilArmor Class 11 (hide armor)Hit Points 76 (9dl0 + 27)Speed 40 ft .STR19 (+4)DEX8 (-1)CON16 (+3)INT5 (- 3)WIS7 (- 2)Senses darkvision 60 ft ., passive Perception 8Languages Common, GiantCHA7 (-2)Challenge 4 (1 , l 00 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Siege Monster. The ogre deals double damage to objects andstructures.ACTIONSMultiattack. The ogre makes two Bash attacks.Bash. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.Hit: 15 (2dl0 + 4) bl udgeoning damage, and the ogre can pushthe target 5 feet away if the target is a Huge or sma ll er creature .REACTIONSBlock the Path. When a creature enters a space within 5 feet ofthe ogre, the ogre makes a Bash attack against that crea ture. Ifthe attack hits, the target 's speed is reduced to O until the startof the ogre's next turn.OGRE BOLT LAUNCHERLarge Giant, Typically Chaotic EvilArmor Class 13 (hide armor)Hit Points 59 (7dl0 + 21)Speed 40 ft .STR19 (+ 4)DEX12 (+l)CON16 (+3)INT5 (-3)WIS7 (-2)Senses darkvision 60 ft. , passive Perception 8Languages Common, GiantCHA7 (-2)Challenge 2 (450 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2ACTIONSFist. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, rea ch 5 ft. , one target. Hit:9 (2d4 + 4) bludgeoning dama ge.Bolt Launcher. Ranged Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, range 120/480ft. , one target. Hit: 17 (3dl0 + 1) piercin g damage .200 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYOGRES OF WAROgres love to rush headlong into battle, but withenough time and patience, some of them learn tocarry out specialized missions. The names theyare given-the battering ram, the bolt launcher, thechain brute, and the howdah-reflect their particu-lar functions. These jobs are tailored to take advan-tage of an ogre's strengths.OGRE BATTERING RAMAn ogre battering ram carries an enormous clubthat's primarily used for bashing doors into kindlingbut also works well for smashing foes. These ogresare drilled in two simple tasks: rushing forward toshatter enemy fortifications and using their weap-ons to force an advancing enemy to halt.OGRE BOLT LAUNCHERA bolt launcher carries a gigantic crossbow-aweapon so large it's essentially an ogre-held bal-lista. An ogre bolt launcher can lo ad this immens eweapon and loose its deadly missile as quickly asa dwarf handles a crossbow. The bolts are so largethat few ogres can carry more than a half dozen ata time, but bolt launchers have been known to up-root small trees or tear beams out of buildings andlaunch those when their ammunition runs low.OGRE CHAIN BRUTEAn ogre chain brute wields a greatspiked chain, swinging it with bothhands in a wide circle to knock foes offtheir feet. Alternatively, the ogre canswing the chain in a crushing over-head smash.OGRE HOWDAHThe most unusual of the specializedogres, the howdah carries a palisadedwooden fort on its back . The fort servesas a fighting platform for up to fourSmall people. Ogre howdahs are mostoften seen bearing bow- and spear-wield-ing goblins into battle, or perhaps ko-bolds or deep gnomes (all three appearin the Monster Manual), but they mightalso transport other Small folk.OGRE CHAIN BRUTELarge Giant, Typically Chaotic EvilArmor Class 11 (hide armor)Hit Points 59 (7dl0 + 21)Speed 40 ft .STR19 (+4)DEX8 (- 1)CON16 (+3)INT5 (- 3)WIS7 (- 2)Senses darkvision 60 ft ., passive Perception 8Languages Common , GiantCHA7 (-2)Challenge 3 (700 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2ACTIONSFist . Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit , reach ft., one target. Hit : 9(2d4 + 4) bludgeoning damage.Chain Smash (Recharge 6). Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit,reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) bludgeoning damage,and the target must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution savingthrow or be stunned for l minute. The target repeats the savingthrow if it takes damage and at the end of each of its turns,ending the effect on itself on a success.Chain Sweep. Th e ogre swings its chain, and each creaturewithin 10 feet of it must make a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw.On a failed saving throw, a creature takes 8 (ld8 + 4) bludgeon-ing damage and is knocked prone. On a successfu l save, thecreature takes half as much damage and isn't knocked prone.OGRE HOWDAHLarg e Giant, Typically Chaotic EvilArmor Class 15 (breastplate, shield)Hit Points 59 (7dl0 + 21)Speed 40 ft.STR19 (+4)DEX8 (- 1)CON16 (+3)INT5 (-3)WIS7 (-2)Senses darkvision 60 ft ., passi ve Perception 8Languages Common , GiantCHA7 (-2)Challenge 2 (450 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Howdah. The ogre carries a compact fort on its back. Up tofour Small creatures can ride in the fort without squeezing. Tomake a me lee attack against a target within 5 feet of the ogre,they must use spears or weapons with reach. Creatures in thefort have three-quarters cover against attacks and effects fromoutside it. If the ogre dies, creatures in the fort are placed inunoccupied spaces with in 5 feet of the ogre .ACTIONSFist. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft. , one target. Hit :11 (2d6 + 4) bludgeoning damage.ICHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 201OINOLOTHGrim specters of death, oinoloths bring pestilencewherever they go. When armies recognize their aw-ful forms, their mere appearance causes soldiers tobreak ranks and flee, lest they succumb to one of theawful plagues that oinoloths let loose.Oinoloths solve thorny problems by killing ev-eryone involved. They are typically hired as a lastresort when a siege has gone on too long or anarmy has proven too strong to overcome. Once sum-moned, oinoloths stalk the killing field, poisoningthe ground and sickening creatures they encoun-ter. Sometimes they might be hired to lift the veryplagues they spread, but the price for such work ishigh, and the effort turns the creatures they saveinto debilitated wrecks.OIN0L0THMedium Fiend (Yugo/0th), Typically Neutral EvilArmor Class 17 (natural armor)Hit Points 119 (14d8 + 56)Speed 40 ft .STR19 (+4)DEX17 (+3)CON18 (+4)Saving Throws Con +8, Wis +7INT17 (+3)WIS16 (+3)CHA19 (+4)Skills Deception +8 , Intimidation +8 , Perception +7Damage Resistances co ld , fire, lightning; bludgeoning,piercing, and slashing from nonmagica l attacksDamage Immunities acid , poisonCondition Immunities poisonedSenses blindsight 60 ft ., darkvision 60 ft.,passive Perception 17Languages Abyssa l, Infernal, telepathy 60 ft.Challenge 12 (8,400 XP) Proficiency Bonus +4Magic Resistance. The oinoloth has advantage on savingthrows against spells and other magical effects.ACTIONSMultiattack. The oinoloth makes two Claw attacks, and it usesSpellcasting or Teleport.Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one tar-get. Hit: 14 (3d6 + 4) slashing damage plus 22 (4dl0) ne-crotic damage.Corrupted Healing (Recharge 6). The oinoloth touches onewilling creature within 5 feet of it. The target regains all itshit points. In addition, the oinoloth can end one disease onthe target or remove one of the following conditions from it:202 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY',/blinded, deafened, paralyzed, or poisoned. The target thengains l level of exhaustion, and its hit point maximum is re-duced by 7 (2d6). This reduction can be removed only by a wishspell or by casting greater restoration on the target three timeswithin the same hour. The target dies if its hit point maximumis reduced to 0.Spellcasting. The oinoloth casts one of the following spells,requiring no material components and using Charisma as thespellcasting ability (spell save DC 16):At will: darkness, detect magic, dispel magic, hold monster, invisi-bility (self only)l /day each: feeblemind, globe of invulnerabilityTeleport. The oinoloth teleports, along with any equipment itis wearing or carrying, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied spaceit can see.BONUS ACTIONSBringer of Plagues (Recharge 5-6). The oinoloth blights thearea in a 30-foot-radius sphere centered on itself. The blightlasts for 24 hours. While the area is blighted, all normal plantsthere wither and die.Furthermore, when a creature moves into the blighted areaor starts its turn there, that creature must make a DC 16 Con-stitution saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 14(4d6) poison damage and is poisoned. On a successful save,the creature is immune to the oinoloth's Bringer of Plagues forthe next 24 hours.The poisoned creature can't regain hit points . After every 24hours that elapse, the poisoned creature can repeat the savingthrow. On a failed save, the creature's hit point maximum isreduced by 5 (ldl0). This reduction lasts until the poison ends,and the target dies if its hit point maximum is reduced to 0.The poison ends after the creature successfully saves against itthree times.it"'0RCUSOrcus is the Demon Prince of Undeath, also knownas the Blood Lord. While he takes pleasure in thesufferings of the living, he far prefers the companyand service of Undead. His desire is to see all lifequenched and the multiverse transformed into avast necropolis populated solely by Undead crea-tures under his command.Orcus rewards those who spread death in hisname by granting them a small portion of his power.The least of these become ghouls and zombies (bothappear in the Monster Manual) that serve in hislegions, while his favored servants are the cultistsand necromancers who murder the living and thenmanipulate the dead, emulating their dread master.Orcus is a bestial creature of corruption with adiseased, decaying look. He has the lower torso of agoat and a humanlike upper body with a belly swol-len with rot. Great bat wings sprout from his shoul-ders, a nd his head is like the skull of a goat, theflesh nearly rotted from it. In one hand, he wieldsthe legendary Wand of Orcus, which is described inthe Dungeon Master's Guide.0Rcus's LAIROrcus makes his lair in the fortress city of Naratyr,which is on Thanatos, the layer of the Abyss that herules. Surrounded by a moat fed by the River Styx,Naratyr is an eerily quiet and cold city, its streetsempty for hours at a time. The central castle ofbone has interior walls of flesh and carpets made ofwoven hair. The city contains wandering Undead,many of which are engaged in continuous battleswith one another.LAIR ACTIONSOn initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Orcuscan take one of the following lair actions; he can'ttake the same lair action two rounds in a row:Deadly Utterance. Orcus's voice booms throughoutthe lair. His utterance causes one creature of hischo ice to be subjected to power word kill. Orcusneedn't see the creature, but he must be awarethat the individual is in the lair.Grasp of the Dead. Orcus causes skeletal armsto rise from an area on the ground in a 20-footsquare that he can see. They last until the next ICHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 203initiative count 20. Each creature in that areawhen the arms appear must succeed on a DC 23Strength saving throw or be restrained until thearms disappear or until Orcus releases them (noaction required).Undead Servants. Orcus causes up to six corpseswithin the lair to rise as skeletons, zombies, orghouls (all appear in the Monster Manual). TheseUndead obey his telepathic commands, which canreach anywhere in the lair.REGIONAL EFFECTSThe region containing Orcus's lair is warped by hismagic, creating one or more of the following effects:Charnel Realm. The air is filled with the stench ofrotting flesh, and buzzing flies grow thick withinthe region.Undead Beasts. Dead Beasts periodically animateas Undead mockeries of their former selves. Skel-0RCUSHuge Fiend (Demon) , Chaotic EvilArmor Class l7 (natural armor) , 20 with the Wand of OrcusHit Points 405 (30dl2 + 210)Speed 40 ft., fly 40 ft .STR27 (+8)DEX14 (+2)CON25 (+7)INT20 (+5)Saving Throws Dex +10, Con +15 , Wis +13Skills Arcana +12 , Perception +12Damage Resistances cold, fire, lightningWIS20 (+5)CHA25 (+7)Damage Immunities necrotic, poison; bludgeoning, piercing,and slashing that is nonmagicalCondition Immunities charmed, exhaustion , frightened,poisonedSenses truesight 120 ft., passive Perception 22Languages all, telepathy 120 ft .Challenge 26 (90,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +8Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Orcus fails a saving throw, hecan choose to succeed instead.Magic Resistance. Orcus has advantage on saving throwsagainst spells and other magical effects.Master of Undeath. Orcus can cast animate dead (at will) andcreate undead (3/day). He chooses the level at which the spellsare cast , and the creatures created by them remain under hiscontrol indefinitely. Additionally, he can cast create undeadeven when it isn't night.Special Equipment. Orcus wields the Wand of Orcus.ACTIONSMultiattack. Orcus makes three Wand of Orcus, Tail, or Ne -crotic Bolt attacks.Wand of Orcus. Me lee Weapon Attack:+19 to hit, reach 10 ft.,one target. Hit: 24 (3d8 + ll) bludgeoning damage plus l3(2dl2) necrotic damage.204 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYetal and zombie versions of local wildlife are com-monly seen in the area .If Orcus dies, these effects fade over the course ofldlO days.CULTISTS OF ORCUSOrcus grants his rank-and-file cultists the UndyingSoul trait, and his cult leaders can gain the Aura ofDeath trait.Undying Soul (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). If thiscreature is reduced to O hit points, it immediately makes a DC10 Constitution saving throw. lfit succeeds, it is instead re-duced to l hit point.Aura of Death. This creature emanates a deathly aura thatextends 30 feet in every direction from its space while it isn'tincapacitated. The aura is blocked by total cover. While in theaura, the creature and any friendly Undead are immune to thefrightened condition and have resistance to radiant damage.Enemies have disadvantage on death saving throws whilein the aura.Tail. Melee Weapon Attack:+16 to hit, reach lO ft., one target.Hit: 21 (3d8 + 8) force damage plus 9 (2d8) poison damage.Necrotic Bolt. Ranged Spell Attack:+15 to hit, range 120 ft., onetarget. Hit: 29 (5d8 + 7) necrotic damage.Conjure Undead (1/Day). While holding the Wand of Orcus,Orcus conjures Undead creatures whose combined averagehit points don't exceed 500. These creatures magically riseup from the ground or otherwise form in unoccupied spaceswithin 300 feet of Orcus and obey his commands until they aredestroyed or until he dismisses them as an action.Spel/casting. Orcus casts one of the following spells, requiringno material components and using Charisma as the spellcast-ing ability (spell save DC 23) :At will: detect magic3/day: dispel magicl/day: time stopWand Spellcasting. While holding the Wand of Orcus, Orcuscasts one of the following spells (spell save DC 18), some ofwhich require charges; the wand has 7 charges to fuel thesespells, and it regains ld4 + 3 charges daily at dawn:At will: animate dead (as an action), blight, speak with deadl charge each: circle of death,finger of death2 charges: power word killLEGENDARY ACTIONSOrcus can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the optionsbelow. Only one legendary action option can be used at a timeand only at the end of another creature's turn. Orcus regainsspent legendary actions at the start of his turn.Attack. Orcus makes one Tail or Necrotic Bolt attack.Creeping Death (Costs 2 Actions). Orcus chooses a point onthe ground that he can see within 100 feet of him. A cylinderof swirling necrotic energy 60 feet tall and with a 10-footradius rises from that point and lasts until the end of Or-cus's next turn. Creatures in that area have vulnerability tonecrotic damage .0RTHONWhen an archduke of the Nine Hells needs a crea-ture tracked, found, and either done away with orcaptured, the task usually falls to an orthon. Thesedevils are infernal bounty hunters, tireless in theirpursuit of their quarry across the multi verse.Orthons are infamous for their sharp senses.Because an orthon can become invisible at will, itsquarry is often unaware of being hunted until the or-thon strikes. This invisibility can be disrupted whenthe devil is attacked, however, so a strong counterat-tack is often the best defense against it.Orthons value the challenge of the chase and thethrill of one-on-one combat above all else. An or-thon's first loyalty is to its archduke, but one with noimmediate assignment might work for anyone whopromises it a worthy struggle against a lethal foe.Because they travel widely, orthons are unequaledas guides through the layers of the Nine Hells.0RTHONLarge Fiend (Devil), Typically Lawful EvilArmor Class 17 (half plate)Hit Points 105 (lOdl0 + 50)Speed 30 ft., climb 30 ft.STR22 (+6)DEX16 (+3)CON21 (+5)INT15 (+2)Saving Throws Dex +7, Con +9, Wis +6WIS15 (+2)Skills Perception +10, Stealth +11, Survival +10CHA16 (+3)Damage Resistances cold; bludgeoning , piercing, and slashingfrom nonmagical attacks that aren't si lveredDamage Immunities fire, poisonCondition Immunities charmed, exhaustion , poisonedSenses darkvision 120 ft., trues ight 30 ft.,passive Perception 20Languages Common , Infernal , telepathy 120 ft.Challenge 10 (5,900 XP) Proficiency Bonus +4Magic Resistance. The orthon has advantage on saving throwsagainst spells and other magical effects.ACTIONSInfernal Dagger. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft.,one target. Hit: 11 (2d4 + 6) force damage, and the target mustmake a DC 17 Constitution saving throw, taking 22 (4d10) poi-son damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a suc-cessful one. On a failure, the target is also poisoned for 1 min-ute. The poisoned target can repeat the saving throw at the endof each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.Brass Crossbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +7 to hit , ran ge100 /400 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d10 + 3) force damage.The target also suffers one of the following effects of theorthon's choice; the orthon can't use the same effect tworounds in a row:Acid. The target must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw ,taking 17 (5d6) acid damage on a failed save, or half as muchdamage on a successful one .Blindness. The target takes 5 (ldl0) radiant damage. In addi-tion, the target and each creature within 20 feet of it mustsucceed on a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw or be blinded un-til the end of the orthon's next turn .Concussion . The target and each creature within 20 feet ofit must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw, taking 13(2d12) thunder damage on a failed save, or half as muchdamage on a successful one.Entanglement. The target must succeed on a DC 17 Dexteritysaving throw or be restrained for 1 hour by strands of stickywebbing. The target can escape by taking an action to make aDC 17 Strength or Dexterity check and succeeding.Paralysis. The target takes 22 (4d10) lightning damage andmust succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or beparalyzed for 1 minute. The paralyzed target can repeat thesaving throw at the end of each of its turns , ending the effecton itself on a success.Tracking. For the next 24 hours, the orthon knows the directionand distance to the target, as long as it's on the same planeof existence. If the target is on a different plane, the orthonknows which one, but not the exact location there.BONUS ACTIONSInvisibility Field (Recharge 4-6). The orthon becomes invisible.Any equipment it wears or carries is also invisible as long asthe equipment is on its person. This invisibility ends immedi-ately after it makes an attack roll or is hit by an attack roll.REACTIONSExplosive Retribution. In response to dropping to 15 hit pointsor fewer, the orthon explodes. All other creatures wit hin 30 feetofit must each make a DC 17 Dexterity sav ing throw, taking9 (2d8) fire damage plu s 9 (2d8) thunder damage on a failedsave, or half as much damage on a success ful one. The orthon,its infernal dagger, and its brass crossbow are destroyed.ICHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 20$PHOENIXReleasing a phoenix from the Inner Planes createsan explosion of fire that spreads across the sky.An enormous fiery bird forms in the center of theflames and smoke-an eld er Elemental possessedby a need to burn everything to ash. The phoeni xrarely stays in one place for long as it strives totransform the world into an inferno.PHOENIXGargantuan Elemental, Typically NeutralArmor Class 18Hit Points 175 (l0d20 + 70)Speed 20 ft. , fl y 120 ft .STR19 (+ 4)DEX26 (+ 8)CON25 (+ 7)Saving Throws Wis +l 0, Cha +9INT2 (-4)WIS21 (+5)CHA18 (+4)Damage Resistances bludgeoning, pi ercing, and slashing fromnonm agical attacksDamage Immunities fire, poisonCondition Immunities exhaustio n, grappled , paral yzed ,petrified , poisoned , prone, restrained , stunnedSenses dar kv ision 60 ft ., pa s si ve Perception l 5Languages -Challenge 16 (15 ,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +5Fiery Death and Rebirth. If the phoenix dies, it explodes . Eachcreature in 60-foot-radius sphere centered on the phoeni xmust make a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw, taking 22 (4dl0)fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a suc-cessful one. The fire ignites flammable objects in the area thataren't being worn or carried .The explosion destroys the phoeni x's body and leaves behindan egg-shaped cinder, which we ighs 5 pounds. The cinderdeals 21 (6d6) fire damage to any creature that touches it,though no more than once per round. The cinder is immune toall damage, and after ld6 da ys, it hatches a new phoenix.Fire Form . The phoenix can move through a space as narrow asl inch wi de without squeezing.An y creature that touches the phoenix or hits it with a meleeQ06 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYattack whi le within 5 feet ofit takes 5 (ldl0) fire damage. Inaddition, the phoenix can enter a hostile creature's space andstop there. The first time it enters a creature's space on a turn ,that creature takes 5 (ldlO) fire damage.With a touch, the phoenix can also ignite flammable objectsthat aren't being worn or carried (no action required).Flyby. The phoenix doesn't provoke opportunity attacks whenit flies out of an enemy's reach.lllumination. The phoenix sheds bright light in a 60-foot radiusand dim light for an additional 60 feet .Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the phoenix fails a savingthrow, it can choose to succeed instead.Siege Monster. The phoenix deals double damage to objectsand structures.ACTIONSMultiattack. The phoenix makes one Beak attack and one Fier yTalons attack.Beak . Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target.Hit: 15 (2d6 + 8) fire damage.Fiery Talons. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 15 ft. , onetarget. Hit: 17 (2d8 + 8) fire damage.LEGENDARY ACTIONSThe phoenix can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from theoptions belo w. Only one legendary action option can be usedat a time and only at the end of another creature's turn . Thephoenix regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn.Move. The phoenix moves up to its speed .Peck. The phoenix makes one Beak attack.Swoop (Costs 2 Actions). The phoenix moves up to its speedand makes one Fiery Talons attack.QUICKLINGQuicklings rocket through twisted forestswhere the unseelie fey hold sway, both inthe Feywild and in the world. These slen-der Fey resemble miniature elves with feralfeatures and cold eyes thatgleam like jewels. Racingfaster than the eye can track,they appear as little morethan blurry waverings in the air.Quicklings owe their existence-and their plight-to the Queen of Air and Darkness, the dread rulerof the Gloaming Court. Once a species of lazy andegotistical Fey, quicklings' predecessors were latein answering the queen's summons one time toomany. To hasten their pace and teach them to mindher will, the queen sped up their internal clocks andshrank them. Her curse gave quicklings amazingspeed but also accelerated their passage throughlife-no quickling lives longer than fifteen years.The mortal realm is a ponderous place to a quick-ling's eye: a hurricane creeps gradua lly across thesky, a torrent of rain drifts earthward like lazy snow-flakes, lightning crawls in a meandering path fromcloud to cloud. The slow and boring world seems tobe populated by torpid creatures whose deep , moo-ing speech lacks meaning.To other creatures, quicklings seem blindinglyfast, vanishing into an indistinct blur as they move.Their cruel laughter is a burst of rapid staccatosounds, their speech a shrill squeal. Only whenquicklings deliberately slow down , which they prefernot to do, can other beings properly see, hear, andcomprehend them. Never truly at rest, "stationary"quicklings constantly pace and shift in place, asthough they can't wait to be off again.Quicklings have a capricious nature that goeswell with their energy level: they think as fast asthey run, and they are always up to something.They spend most of their time perpetrating acts ofmischief on slower creatures. One rarely passes upan opportunity to tie a person 's bootlaces together,move the stool a creature is about to sit on, or un-buckle a saddle while no one's looking.Tricks of that sort are hardly the limit of quick-lings' artful malice , however. They don't commitoutright murder, but they can ruin lives in plentyof other ways: stealing an important letter, swipingcoins collected for the poor, planting a stolen itemin someone's bag. Quicklings enjoy causing suffer-ing that transcends mere mischief, especially whenthe blame for their actions falls on others and cre-ates discord .•••QUICKLINGTiny Fey, Typically Chaotic EvilArmor Class 16Hit Points 10 (3d4 + 3)Speed 120 ft .STR4 (-3)DEX23 (+6)CON13 (+l)INTl 0 (+ 0)WIS12 (+l)Skills Acrobatics +8 , Sleight of Hand +8 , Stealth +8,Perception +5Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 15Languages Common , SylvanCHA7 (-2)Challenge l (200 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Blurred Movement . Attack rolls against the quickling have dis-advantage unless it is incapacitated or its speed is 0.Evasion. If the quickling is subjected to an effect that allows itto make a De xterity saving throw to take only half damage, itinstead takes no damage if it succeeds on the saving throw andonly half damage if it fails, provided it isn't incapacitated.ACTIONSMultiattack. The quickling makes three Dagger attacks.Dagger. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft. orrange 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (ld4 + 6) piercing damage.CHAPTER 2 [ BESTIARY 2.07REDCAPA redcap is a homicidal Fey creature born of bloodlust. Redcaps, although small, have formidablestrength, which they use to hunt and kill withouthesitation or regret.In the Feywild, or where that plane touchesthe material world at a fey crossing , if asentient creature acts on an intense desirefor bloodshed, one or more redcaps mightappear where the blood of a slain personsoaks the ground. At first , new redcaps looklike tiny bloodstained mushrooms just push-ing their caps out of the soil. When moonlightshines on one of these caps, a creature thatresembles a wizened and undersized gnome witha hunched back and a sinewy frame springs fromthe earth. The creature has a pointed leather cap ,clothing of similar material , heavy iron boots, anda heavy bladed weapon. From the moment redcapsawaken, they desire only murder and carnage, andthey constantly seek to satisfy these cravings.Redcaps lack subtlety. They live for direct con -frontation and the mayhem of mortal combat. Evenif a redcap wanted to be stealthy, the creature'siron boots force them to take ponderous, thunder-ous steps. When a redcap is near potential prey,though , they can close the distance quickly and getin a vicious swing of their weapon before the targetcan react.Redcaps' desire to slay is rooted in their will tosurvive. To sustain their unnatural existence, theymust soak their hats in the fresh blood of their vic-tims. When redcaps are born , their hats are coatedwith wet blood, and they know that if the blood isn'treplenished at least once every three days, they willvanish as if they had never been.Some redcaps can sense the being whose murder-ous acts led to their birth. They typically use this in-nate connection to find their creator and make thatcreature their first victim, though they might insteadseek out their maker to enjoy proximity to a kindredspirit. Although redcaps don't usually operate ingroups , an individual responsible for the creationof multiple redcaps at the same site could attractthe entire group to serve as cohorts, emulating thatindividual's murderous handiwork . Some hags andwicked mages know methods to call redcaps out ofthe Feywild and m ight likewise put teams of themto work as grisly servants.In any case, if a redcap works with another being,the redcap demands to be paid in victims. A patronwho tries to stifle a redcap's natural and neces-sary urge for blood risks becoming the redcap'snext target.208 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYREDCAPSmall Fey, Typically Chaotic E~i/Armor Class 14 (natural armor)Hit Points 45 (6d6 + 24)Speed 25 ft .STR18 (+4)DEX13 (+l)CON18 (+4)Skills Athletics +6 , Perception +3INT10 (+O)WIS12 (+l)Senses darkvision 60 ft ., passive Perception 13Languages Common , SylvanCHA9 (-1)Challenge 3 (700 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Iron Boots. The redca p has disadvantage on Dexter it y(Stealth) checks.Outsize Stre ng t h. While grappling, the redcap is consideredto be Med ium . Also, wielding a heavy weapon doesn't imposedisadvantage on its attack rolls.ACTIONSMultia tt ac k. The redcap makes three Wicked Sickle attacks .Wick ed Si ckle. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., onetarget. Hit: 9 (2d4 + 4) slashing damage .lron bound Pursuit. The redcap moves up to its speed to a crea-ture it can see and kicks with its iron boots. The target mustsucceed on a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw or take 20 (3dl0 +4) bludgeoning damage and be knocked prone.RETRIEVERThe retriever is a potent, spider-like Con-struct conceived and built by Underdark fol-lowers of Lolth for one original purpose - toprowl the Abyss and capture demons forthese cultists to enslave or use in their rituals.The automatons proved so effective and sofearsome that they now perform many differ-en t missions.Though retrievers were created to operateonly in the Abyss, they are sometimes dis-patched when a powerful devotee of Lolthneeds some creature or object captured andbrought back alive and intact. Only under therarest of circumstances is a retriever handedover or sold to others, since Lolth's cultistsdon't want to take the chance that their cre-ations will be turned against them .RETRIEVERLarge Construct, Typically Lawful EvilArmor Class 19 (natural armor)Hit Points 210 (20dl0 + 100)Speed 40 ft ., climb 40 ft .STR22 (+6)DEX16 (+3)CON20 (+5)INT3 (- 4)Saving Throws De x +8 , Con +10 , Wis +5Skills Perception +5, Stealth +8WIS11 (+0)CHA4 (-3)Damage Immunities necrotic, poison, psychic; bludgeoning,piercing, and slashing from nonmagical attacks that aren 'tadamantineCondition Immunities charmed , exhaustion , frightened,paralyzed, poisonedSenses blindsight 30 ft ., darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 15Languages understands Abyssal , Elvish , and Undercommonbut can't speakChallenge 14 {11,500 XP) Proficiency Bonus +5Faultless Tracker. Th e retriever is given a quarry by its master.The quarry can be a specific creature or object the master ispersonally acquainted with, or it can be a genera l type of crea-ture or object the master has seen before. The retriever knowsthe direction and distance to its quarry as long as the two ofthem are on the same plane of existence. The retriever can ha veon ly one such quarry at a time. The retriever also always knowsthe location of its master.ACTIONSMultiattack. The retriever makes two Foreleg attacks, and ituses Force Beam or Paralyzing Beam, if available.Foreleg. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 10 ft., one tar-get. Hit: 15 (2d8 + 6) slashing damage.Force Beam. The retrie ve r targets one creature it can see within60 feet of it . The target must make a DC 16 De xter it y savingthrow, taking 27 (5dl0) force damage on a failed save, or halfas much damage on a successfu l one.Paralyzing Beam (Recharge 5-6). The retriever targets onecreature it can see within 60 feet ofit . The target must suc-ceed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or be paral yz ed for1 minute. The paralyzed target can repeat the saving throwat the end of each of it s turns, ending the effect on itself ona success.If the paral yz ed creature is Medium or smal ler, the retrievercan pick it up as part of the retrie ve r's mo ve and wal k or climbwith it at full speed .Spellcasting. The retriever casts one of the following s pells ,requiring no material components and using Wisdom as thespellcasting ability (spell save DC 13) :3/day each: plane shift (only self and up to one in ca pa citatedcreature, which is considered wi lling for the spe ll) , webCHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 20~RUTTERKINRutterkins are warped demons that roam the Abyssin mobs, constantly searching for intruders to sur-round and devour. These Fiends protect the Abyssfrom non-demons. When they spot any interlopers,they gather in a crowd and surge forward, emittinga wave of fear in advance of their attacks that leavestheir victims terrified and rooted in place.Creatures bitten by rutterkins are exposed to aterrible disease that infects them with the corrupt-ing influence of the Abyss. Victims afflicted with thedisease experience tremendous pain as their bodiesbecome disfigured, flesh twisting around the bones ,until they transform to join the mass of manes de-mons (see the Monster Manual) that follow in thewake of the rutterkin mob that laid them low.RUTTERKINMedium Fiend (Demon), Typically Chaotic EvilArmor Class 12Hit Points 37 (5d8 + 15)Speed 20 ft .STR14 (+2)DEX15 (+2)CON17 (+3)INT5 (-3)Damage Resistances cold , fire , lightningDamage Immunities poisonWIS12 (+l)Condition Immunities charmed , frightened, poisonedSenses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 11Languages understands Abyssal but can't speakCHA6 (-2)Challenge 2 (450 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Immobilizing Fear. When a creature that isn't a demon startsits turn within 30 feet of one _or more rutterkins , that creaturemust make a DC 11 Wisdom saving throw. The creature hasdisadvantage on the save if it 's within 30 feet of six or morerutterkins, On a failed save, the creature becomes frightenedof the rutterkins for 1 minute, While frightened in this way, thecreature is restrained. At the end of each of the frightened crea-ture's turns, it can repeat the saving throw, ending the effecton itself on a success, On a successfu l save, the creature is im-mune to the Crippling Fear of a ll rutterkins for 24 hours,ACTIONSBite. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft. , one target.Hit: 12 (3d6 + 2) piercing damage, If the target is a creature,it must succeed on a DC 13 Constitution saving throw againstdisease or become poisoned . At the end of each long rest, thepoi soned target can repeat the saving throw, ending the effecton it self on a success, If the target is reduced to O hit pointswhile poisoned in this way, it dies and instantly transforms intoa living manes (see the Monster Manual). The transformationcan be undone only by a wish spell,210 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYSEA SPAWNMany of the stories sung as sea chant e ys and re -counted in dockside taverns te ll of people lost to thesea- but not merely drown ed and gone. Some un-fortunates taken by the ocean live on as sea spawn,haunting the waves like tortur ed reflections of theirform er se lv es . Coral encrusts th em. Barnacles clingto their cold skin . Lungs that on ce fill ed with air cannow br e ath e in water as we ll.Tales provide myriad re ason s for these strangetransformations. Folklore warns against fallingin lov e with a sea elf or merfolk, braving stormsin hopes of a bounteous catch , and promisingyour he art to a sea god. Such c autionary talesdisgu ise the deeper truth: things lurking beneathth e waves strive to claim the he arts and minds ofland dw ellers.Krak e ns , morkoths , sea hag s, marids , storm gi-ants, dragon turtles (morkoths app e ar in this book ;th e oth e rs app e ar in the Monster Manual)- all ofth ese and mor e can mark mortals as their own andclaim them as minions. Unlucky fo lk might becomebeholden to such a mast er through a bl e ak bargain ,or they might find thems elves curs ed by one. Oncewarped into a fishlike form, a sea spawn c an't leavethe water for long without courting death.S ea spawn come in a wide variety of forms . Anindividual might have a tentacle for an arm , the jawsof a s hark , a s ea ur c hin 's s pines, a whale's fin , octo-pu s eyes , seaw eed hair , or any combination of suchqualities . Som e of these piscine body parts provideth em with sp ec ial abilities.THE SEA SPAWN OF PURPLE ROCKSVi sitors to a string of islands ca ll ed the PurpleRocks (in the Forgotten Realms s etting) mightnotice one curious fact about the islands ' humaninhabitants: no infants or e ld erly ar e among them.This is bec au se babies born to the Rocklandersar e claimed by a kraken (see the Monster Manual)na med Slarkr ethel. The experie nce transforms thechildren into fanatics dedicated to the kraken. Theyre turn from the sea as human s, but when they re achold ag e, they transform into s ea spawn and rejointh eir master in the depths. Some children returnhaving suffered partial transformations and mustconceal themselves from strang e rs until their fulltransformation in order to k ee p the s e cr et of thePurple Rocks .Krak en prie sts (in this book) tend to th e kraken 'sflo c k. Most of the priests ar e island natives , butsome ar e oth er sorts of creatur es that liv e in th ewater a round the Purple Roc ks , su ch as merfolk ormerrow (both of which appear in the Monster Man-ual) , or even s ea elves.SEA SPAWNMedium Monstrosity , Typically Neutral EvilArmor Class 11 (natural armor)Hit Points 32 (5d8 + 10)Speed 20 ft., sw im 30 ft.STR15 (+2)DEX8 (-1)CON15 (+2)INT6 (- 2)WIS10 (+O)Senses darkvision 120 ft. , passive Perception 10CHA8 (-1)Languages understands Aquan and Common but can't speakChallenge l (200 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Li mited Amphibiousne ss . The sea spawn can breathe air andwater, but it needs to be submerged in the sea at least once aday for l minute to avoid suffocating.ACTIONSMult iatta ck. The sea spawn makes two Unarmed Strike attacksand one Piscine Anatomy attack.Un a rm ed Strike. Mele e Weapon Attack: + 4 to hit, reach 5 ft.,one target. Hit: 4 (ld4 + 2) bludgeoning damage.Pisci ne Anatomy. The sea spawn uses one of the following op-tions (choose one or roll a d6):1- 2: Bite. Me/ee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft. , one tar-get. Hit: 4 (ld4 + 2) pie rcing damage.3- 4: Poison Quills. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5ft., one creature. Hit: 3 (l d6) poison damage, and the tar-get must succeed on a DC 12 Constitution saving throw orbe poisoned for l minute. The target can repeat the savingthrow at the end of each of its turns , ending the effect onitself on a success.5- 6: Tentacle. Mele e Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 10 ft. , onetarget. Hit : 5 (ld6 + 2) bludgeoning damage, and the target isgrappled (escape DC 12) ifit is a Medium or smaller creature.Until this grapple ends , the sea spawn can't use this tentacleon another target.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 2IISHADOW DAN CERGLOOM WEAVERSHADAR-KAIIn the gloom of the Shadowfell live shadar-kai, elveswhose ancestors served the Raven Queen, a god ofdeath and memory. They were brought to that realmin ages past, so long ago that they're now adaptedto its cheerless environment, both physicallyand mentally.Eons of exposure to the influence of the Shadow-fell has left shadar -kai often joyless and mournful.In that realm, they have pale hair, wrinkled grayskin, and swollen joints that give them a corpse-like aspect. They appear more youthful while onother planes, but their skin always retains a deathlyashen hue. When in the Shadowfell, they detest mir-rors and avoid keeping things that remind them oftheir age.Shadar-kai of the Raven Queen watch over boththe Shadowfell and the Material Plane , scouting outchoice souls and tragedies that might please theirdeity. They are rumored to be able to coax worldlyevents along tragic paths for her amusement. TheRaven Queen is famously cryptic even to her mostdevoted followers, however; their efforts are re-warded only with vague omens they interpret asbest they can.212 CHAPTER '2 I BESTIARYFORTRESS OF MEMORIESThe shadar-kai who are most devoted to the RavenQueen serve her at the Fortress of Memories, hertwisted castle in the Shadowfell. The fortress is amournful place, filled with incessant echoes of thepast. Flocks of ravens that act as the Raven Queen'seyes and ears darken the skies around it when theyemerge from within, bearing her cryptic messagesand omens far and wide across the multiverse.Within the fortress are items that the RavenQueen finds irresistible: objects invested with deepfeelings of sorrow, longing, or remorse. These itemsare brought to her as gifts from the shadar-kai,and include furniture, clocks, mirrors, jewels, andtoys. Ghostly visions of people, places, and petsalso appear in the fortress. Any of these things canspontaneously appear about her lair, every objectand apparition being a metaphoric representation ofsome story- great or small - that was saturated withraw emotion.Shadar-kai encountered outside the Shadowfellare often on quests to find the most sorrow-toucheditems they can find to bring back to their queen'sgloomy castle.GLOOM WEAVERAlthough they're formidable warriors, gloom weav-ers are often content to hide in the shadows, watch-ing as their very presence affects their victims.Their bleak energy weighs down the h ea rt , causingthose nearby to feel the approach of death. If de-tected, gloom weavers use their shadow magic toreduce enemies to ghastly corpses.SHADOW DANCERThose who have fought shadow dancers describethe experience as similar to fighting a living dark-ness. Every dim alcove and dark e ned nook is a placeSHADAR-KAI GLOOM WEAVERMedium Humanoid (Elf}, Typically Neutral EvilArmor Class 14 (17 with mage armor)Hit Points 104 (16d8 + 32)Speed 30 ft.STR11 (+0)DEX18 (+4)CON14 (+2)Saving Throws De x +8, Con +6Damage Immunities necroticINT15 (+2)WIS12 (+l)Condition Immunities charmed , exhaustionSenses darkvision 60 ft ., passive Perception 11Languages Common , ElvishCHA18 (+4)Challenge 9 (5 ,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +4Burden of Time. Beasts and Humanoids (except elves) havedisadvantage on saving throws while within 10 feet of theshadar-kai.Fey Ancestry. The shadar-kai has advantage on saving throwsagainst being charmed , and magic can't put it to sleep.ACTIONSMultiattack. The shadar-kai makes three Shadow Spear at-tacks. It can replace one attack with a use of Spellcasting.Shadow Spear. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +8 to hit,reach 5 ft . or range 30/120, one target. Hit : 7 (ld6 + 4) piercingdamage plus 26 (4dl2) necrotic damage . Hit or Mi ss: The spearmagically returns to the shadar -ka i's hand immediately after aranged attack.Spellcasting. The shadar-kai casts one of the following spells,requiring no material components and using Charisma as thespellcasting ability (spell save DC 16) :At will: arcane eye , mage armor, minor illusion , prestidigitation,speak with dead1/day each: arcane gate, bane, confusion, darkness.fear, majorimage , true see ingREACTIONSMisty Escape (Recharge 6). When the shadar-kai takes damage,it turns invi sible and teleports, along with any equipment it iswearing or carrying, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it cansee . It remains invisible until the start of its next turn or until itattacks or casts a spell.the lithe and acrobatic shadow dancers can emergefrom to ambush their prey. Using this tactic, theyattack th eir enemies from all angles with a flurryof entangling chains that hold fast and corrupt theflesh. When their quarry is helpless, they dispatchit and then loot the corpse for trinkets, particularlyanything colorful and lively to gaze at after they re-turn to th e gloom of the Shadowfell.SOUL MONGERWracked with despair over the loss of memories of abrighter time, soul mong ers crave the vitality of oth-ers. The aching void within a soul mong er radiatesoutward, manifesting as an unbearabl e weight thatdrains the vigor of anyone unfortunat e enough to bein their presen ce . Those who have escaped the on-slaught of a soul monger can hardly shake the mem-ory of th e sound they make-the moan of a torturedsoul,.lost in a bottomless well of trag e dy.8HADAR-KAI SHADOW DANCERMedium Humanoid (Elf}, Any AlignmentArmor Class 15 (studded leather)Hit Points 71 (13d8 + 13)Speed 30 ft.STR12 (+l)DEX16 (+3)CON13 (+l)Saving Throws De x +6, Cha +4Skills Stealth +6Damage Resistances necroticINT11 (+0)WIS12 (+l)Condition Immunities charmed , exhaustionSenses darkvision 60 ft ., passive Pe rception 11Languages Common , ElvishCHA12 (+l)Challenge 7 (2 ,900 XP) Proficiency Bonus +3Fey Ancestry. The shadar-kai has advantage on saving throwsagainst being charmed, and magic can't put it to sleep.ACTIONSMultiattack. The shadar-kai makes three Spiked Chain attacks .It can use Shadow Jump after one of these attacks .Spiked Chain. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 10 ft.,one target. Hit : 10 (2d6 + 3) piercing damage. The target mustsucceed on a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw or suffer one of thefollowing effects (choose one or roll a d6) :1-2: Decay. The target takes 22 (4dl0) necrotic damage.3-4: Grapple. The target is grappled (escape DC 14) if it isa Medium or smaller creature . Until the grapple ends, thetarget is restrained , and the shadar-kai can't grapple an-other target.5-6: Topple. The target is knocked prone.BONUS ACTIONSShadow jump. The shadar-kai teleports , along with any equip-ment is it wearing or carrying, up to 30 feet to an unoccupiedspace it can see. Both the space it teleports from and the spaceit teleports to must be in dim light or darkness.C H A P TE R 2 I BESTIARY 2I3SHADAR-KAI SOUL MONGERMedium Humanoid (Elf) , Typically Neutral EvilArmor Class 15 (studded leather)Hit Points 136 (2ld8 + 42)Speed 30 ft.STR8 (- 1)DEX17 (+ 3)CON14 (+2)INT19 (+ 4)Saving Throws Dex +7 , W is +7, Cha +5Skills Perception +7Damage Immunities necrotic, p sy chicWIS15 (+ 3)CHA13 (+l)Condition Immunities charmed , exhaustion , frightenedSenses darkvision 60 ft ., passive Perception 17Languages Common , ElvishChallenge ll (7,200 XP) Proficiency Bonus +4Fey Ancestry. The shadar-kai has advantage on saving throwsagainst being charmed , and magic can't put it to sleep .Magic Resistance. The shadar-kai has advantage on savingthrows again st s pells and other magical effects.Soul Thirst. When it reduces a creature to O hit points, th esh adar- kai can gain temporar y hit points equal to half the214 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYcreature's hit point maximum . While the shadar-kai has tempo-rary hit points from this trait , it has advantage on attack rolls.Weight of Ages. Any Beast or Humanoid (except an elf) thatstarts its turn within 5 feet of the shadar-kai has its speed re-duced by 20 feet until the start of that creature's next turn.ACTIONSMultiattack. The shadar-kai makes two Shadow Dagger attacks.Shadow Dagger. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +7 to hit ,reach 5 ft. or range 20 / 60 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (4d4 + 3) pierc-ing damage plu s 19 (3dl2) necrotic damage, and the target ha sdisadvantage on saving throws until the end of the shadar-kai 'sne xt turn. Hit or Miss: The dagger ma gicall y return s to the s ha-dar-kai's hand immediately after a ranged attack.Spellcasting. The shadar-kai casts one of the following spells ,requiring no material components and using Intelligence as thespellcasting ability (spell save DC 16) :l /day each: bestow curse.finger of death, gaseous form, seemingWave of Weariness (Recharge 4-6). The shadar-kai emits wea-riness in a 60-foot cube. Each creature in that are a must makea DC 16 Constitution saving throw. On a fail ed save, a creaturetakes 45 (l0d8) psychic damage and suffers l level of exhau s-tion. On a success ful save, it takes half as much damage a nddoesn 't gain a level of exhau stion .SHADOW MASTIFFSShadow mastiffs- hounds of the Shadowfell-moveinvisibly through the shadows, always on the hunt.SHADOW MASTIFFShunning sunlight, these hounds are usually met asa pack. Some faiths devoted to deities of gloom andnight, such as that of Shar in the Forgotten Realms,perform unholy rites to summon shadow mastiffs towork as temple sentinels and bodyguards.SHADOW MASTIFF ALPHAEach pack of shadow mastiffs is led by an alpha , thesmartest one of the group. The sound of an a lpha'showl strikes terror into those who hear it and is asure sign that a pack is on the prowl.SHADOW MASTIFF ALPHAMedium Monstrosity, Typi cally Neutral EvilArmor Class 12Hit Points 44 (8d8 + 8)Speed 40 ft.STR16 (+3)DEX14 (+2 )CON13 (+1)Skills Perception +5 , Stealth +6INT6 (-2 )WIS12 (+1)CHA5 (- 3)Damage Resistances bludgeoning, piercin g, and slashing fromnonmagical attacks whi le in dim light or darkne ssSenses darkvision 60 ft. , p ass ive Pe rception 15Languages -Challenge 3 (700 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Ethereal Awareness. Th e shadow mastiff can see ethereal crea-tures and objects.Sunlight Weakness. While in bri ght light created by s unli ght,the shadow mastiff has disadvantage on attack roll s, abilitychecks, and saving throws.ACTIONSBite. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.Hit : 10 (2d6 + 3) piercing dam age. If the target is a creature,it must succeed on a DC 13 Strength saving throw or beknocked prone.Terrifying Howl (Recharge 6). The shadow mastiff howls . AnyBeast or Humanoid within 300 feet of it must succeed on a DC11 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened of it for 1 minute. Afrightened target can repeat the saving throw at the end of eachof its turn s, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a target'ssave is successfu l or the effect ends for it, the target is immuneto any shadow mastiff's Terrifying Howl for the next 24 hours.BONUS ACTIONSShadow Blend. Wh il e in dim li ght or darkness , the shadowmastiff becomes invisible, along with anything it is wearing orcarrying. The invisibility lasts until the shadow mastiff uses abonus action to end it or until the shadow mastiff attacks , is inbright li ght, or is in capac it ated.Medium Monstro sity, Typically Neutral EvilArmor Class 12Hit Points 33 (6d8 + 6)Speed 40 ft .STR16 (+3 )DEX14 (+ 2)CON13 (+1)Skills Perception +5, Stealth +6INT5 (-3)WIS12 (+l)CHA5 (- 3)Damage Resistances bludgeonin g, piercing, and s lashin g fromnonmagical attacks while in dim light or darknessSenses darkvi s ion 60 ft., passive Perception 15Languages -Challenge 2 (450 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Ethereal Awareness. The shadow mastiff can see ethereal crea-tures and objects.Sunlight Weakness. While in bright li ght created by sun li ght,the shadow mastiff has disadvantage on attack rolls, abilitychecks, and saving throws.ACTIONSBite. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft. , one target.Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) piercing damage. If the target is a creature,it must succeed on a DC 13 Strength saving throw or beknocked prone.BONUS ACTIONSShadow Blend. Wh il e in dim li ght or darkness , the shadowmastiff becomes invisible, along w ith anything it is wearing orcar r yi ng. The invisibility lasts until the shadow mastiff uses abonus act ion to end it or until the shadow mastiff attack s, is inbright light, or is incapacitated.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 215Trn1t Mord.e"kAil'ie" to look J.ow" o"A"~ \ort of coMPA"io"1hip-eve"'the 11Averi"1, veMMoiAI, J.e~o"ic ·p1App~ ki"J..TASHASHOOSUVAA shoosuva is a hyena-demon gifted by Yeenoghu(appears in this book) to an especially powerfulworshiper (typically a fang ofYeenoghu; see theMonster Manual). A shoosuva manifests shortlyafter a Yeenoghu-worshiping war band achieves agreat victory, emerging from a billowing, fetid cloudof smoke as it arrives from the Abyss. In battle, thedemon wraps its slave ring jaws around one victimwhile lashing out with the poisonous stinger on itstail to bring down another. A creature immobilizedby the poison becomes easy pickings for any nearbymembers of the war band.Each shoosuva is bonded to a particular wor-shiper of Yeenoghu and fights alongside its master.A gnoll that has been gifted with a shoosuva is sec-ond only to a flind (appears in this book) in statuswithin a war band dedicated to Yeenoghu.216 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYSHOOSUVALarge Fiend (Demon), Typically Chaotic EvilArmor Class 14 (natural armor)Hit Points 136 (16dl0 + 48)Speed 40 ft .STR18 (+4)DEX13 (+ l)CON17 (+ 3)INT7 (-2)Saving Throws Dex +4 , Co n +6 , Wis +5Damage Resistances cold , fire, lightningDamage Immunities poisonWIS14 (+2)Condition Immunities charmed, frightened, poisonedSenses darkvision 60 ft ., passive Perception 12Languages Abyssal , Gnoll , telep athy 120 ft.CHA9 (-1)Challenge 8 (3 , 900 X P) Proficiency Bonus +3ACTIONSMultiattack. The shoosuva makes one Bite attack and one TailStinger attack.Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit:26 (4dl0 + 4) piercing damage.Tail Stinger. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit , reach 15 ft., onecreature. Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) piercing damage, and the targetmust succeed on a DC 14 Constitution saving throw or becomepoisoned. While poisoned in this way, the target is also para-lyzed. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of eachof its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.BONUS ACTIONSRampage. When it reduces a creature to 0 hit points with amelee attack on its turn, the shoosuva can move up to half itsspeed and make one Bite attack.SIBR I EXThought to be as old as the Abyss itself, sibriexeshaunt remote parts of that plane, where they usetheir vile abilities to create new horrors and theyseek ancient lore. Rivulets of blood and bile cascadefrom a sibriex's body, polluting the surroundinglandscape.Sibriexes have spent eons amassing knowledgefrom across the planes, hoarding it for when itSIBRIEXHuge Fiend (Demon), Typically Chaotic EvilAr mor Class 19 (natura l armor)Hit Po i nts 15 0 (12d l 2 + 72)Speed Oft., fly 20 ft. (hover)STR10 (+0)DEX3 (-4)CON23 (+6)Saving Throws Int+ 13 , Cha+ 13INT25 (+7)WIS24 (+7)Skills Arcana+ 13 , H istory+ 13, Perception+ 13CHA25 (+7)Damage Resistances cold , fire, lightning; bludgeoning, piercing,an d slash ing from nonmagica l attacksDamage Imm unities poisonCond ition Immunities po isonedSenses trues ight 120 ft ., passive Perception 23Languages all , telepathy 120 ft.Challenge 18 (20,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +6Contamination. The sibriex emits an aura of corruption 30feet in every direction. Vegetation withers in the aura , and theground in the aura is difficu lt terrain for other creatures. Anycreature that starts its turn in the aura must succeed on a DC20 Constitution saving throw or take 14 (4d6) poison damage.A creature that succeeds on the save is immune to this sibriex'sContamination for 24 hours.Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the sibriex fails a saving throw,it can choose to succeed instead.Magic Resistance. The sibriex has advantage on saving throwsagainst spells and other magical effects.ACT I ONSMultiattack. The sibriex makes three Chain attacks , and it usesSquirt Bile.Chain. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 15 ft. , one target.Hit: 20 (2dl2 + 7) force damage.Squirt Bile. The sibriex targets one creature it can see within120 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 20 Dexteritysaving throw or take 31 (9d6) acid damage.Spellcasting. The sibriex casts one of the following spells ,requiring no material components and using Charisma as thespellcasting ability (spell save DC 21):At will: command, dispel magic, hold monster1/day: feeblemindWarp Creature. The sibriex targets up to three creatures it cansee within 120 feet of it. Each target must make a DC 20 Consti-tution saving throw. On a successful save, a creature becomesimmune to this sibriex's Warp Creature. On a failed save, thetarget is poisoned, which causes it to also gain 1 level of ex-haustion. While poisoned in this way , the target must repeatthe saving throw at the start of each of its turns. Three suc-cessful saves against the poison end it , and ending the poisonremoves any levels of exhaustion caused by it. Each failed savecauses the target to gain another level of exhaustion . Once thetarget reaches 6 levels of exhaustion , it dies and instantly trans-forms into a living manes (see the Monster Manual) under thesibriex's control. The transformation of the body can be undoneonly by a wish spell.LEG EN DAR Y ACTIONSThe sibriex can take 3 legendary actions , choosing from the op-tions below. Only one legendary action option can be used at atime and only at the end of another creature's turn. The sibriexregains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn .Cast a Spell. The sibriex uses Spellcasting.Spray Bile. The sibriex uses Squirt Bile.Warp (Costs 2 Actions). The sibriex uses Warp Creature.I'CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 2I7might be useful. Such are their incr ed ible intell ectsand stores of information that many seek them out,including demon lords. Some s ibri exes act as advi-sors and oracles, m anip ul ating demons into servingth eir ends , while others parcel out lore only whendoing so advances their plans.Sibriexes can ch an nel the p ower of the Abyss tocreate new d emo ns from other cr eatu res. Somede mons petition sibriexes for physical gifts, forsibriexes can graft on new body parts to give thedemons greate r strength, vision, or sta mina. Si-briexes never give aid freely, though ; they demand ase rvice or a tr eas ur e in return for the flesh-shapingthey provide.VARIANT: FLESH WARPINGCreat ur es that encounter a sibri ex can be twistedbeyond recognition. Whenever a cr eat ur e fai ls a sav-ing throw against th e sibriex's Warp Creature effect,you can roll percentile di ce and co nsult the F leshWarping tab le to determine an additional effect,whic h vani sh es wh en Warp Creature e nd s on thecreature. If the cr eature transforms into a man es,the effect becomes a permanent feature of that body.A cr eature can willingly s ubm it to fl es h warping ,an agonizi ng process that takes at least 1 hourwhile the creat ur e stays within 30 feet of the sibriex.At the end of the process, roll once on the table (orch oose one effec t) to det er min e how the crea tur e istransformed permanently.FLESH WARPINGdlOO Effect01 - 05 The co lor of the target's hair, eyes, and skin be-comes blue , red , ye llo w, or patterned .06-10 The target's eyes push out of its head at the endof sta lks .11-15 The target 's hands grow c la ws, which can beused as daggers.16-20 One of the target's legs grows longer than theother, reducing its walki ng speed by 10 feet .21-25 The target's eyes become beacons , filling a 15-foot cone with dim light when they are open.26-30 A pair of wings, either feathered or leather y,s prout from the target 's back , granting it a fl yi ngspeed of 30 feet.31-35 The target's ears tear free from its head andscurry awa y; the target is deafened.36-40 Two of the target's teeth turn into short tusks.41 -45 The target's skin develops bark- like scales,granting it a+ 1 bonus to AC but reducing it sChar is ma score by 2 (to a minimum ofl).46-50 The target's arms and legs switch place s, pre-venting the target from moving unless it craw ls.51-55 Th e target's arms become tentacles with fingerson the ends , increasing its reach by 5 feet.56-60 The target's legs grow incredibly long andspringy, increasing its walk in g s peed by 10 feet.61-65 The target grows a lon g, thin ta il , which it canuse as a whip.66-70 The target's entire eyes turn bla ck, and it gainsdark vision out to a range of 120 feet.71-75 The target swells, tripling its weight.76-80 The target beco mes thin and skeletal , halving it sweig ht.81-85 The target's head triples in size.86-90 The target's ears become w in gs, giving it a fl yingspeed of 5 feet.91-95 The target's body becomes unusuall y brittle ,causing the target to have vulnerabi lit y to blud-geoning, piercing, and slashing damage.96-00 The target grows another head, causing it tohave advantage on savi ng thro ws against beingSKULKSkulks are the soulless shells of travelers whobecame lost in the Shadowfell, wandering its graywastes until they lost all sense of self. They are sodevoid of identity that they have become perma-nently invisible. Only children can see a skulk with-out the help of a mirror or a special candle. On therare occasions when a skulk is visible, it appears asa drab, featureless, hairless biped.·'.•A skulk can be summoned from the Shadowfell byperforming a ritual, and it is bound to obey the sum-moner 's commands for 30 days. During this time, ifthe skulk is visible, an astute observer might deducewho summoned it, because the skulk assumes avague likeness of its master.Cruel and chaotic, skulks carry out their ordersin the most violent manner possible. A summonedskulk can't return to the Shadowfell until it dies , somany throw themselves into creating bloodshed andmayhem with no regard for their own lives.After killing a person on the Material Plane , someskulks take up a silent imitation of that person'slife. In extreme cases, skulks have invaded villages,killed all the occupants, and t urn ed the places intoseeming ghost towns wh ere flavorless food is pr e-par ed daily, colorless clothes are hung up to dry , andlivestock is shifted from pen to pen until it starves.Medium Monstrosity, Typically Chaotic NeutralArmor Class 14Hit Points 18 (4d8)Speed 30 ft .STR6 (-2)DEX19 (+ 4)Saving Throws Con +2Skills Stealth +8CON10 (+0)Condition Immunities blindedINT10 (+ O)WIS7 (- 2)Senses darkvi sion 120 ft., passive Perception 8Languages understands Common but can 't speakCHAl (- 5)Challenge 1/2 (100 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Fallible Invisibility. The skulk is in vis ible . Thi s in visibility can becircumvented by three things:Charnel Candles. The skulk appears as a dim, translucent formin the light of a candle made of fat rendered from a corpsewhose identit y is unknown.Children. Humanoid children , aged 10 and under, can seethrough this invisibility.Reflective Surfaces. The skulk appears as a drab, smooth-skinned biped if its reflection can be seen in a mirror or onanother surface.Trackless. The skulk leaves no tracks to indicate where it hasbeen or where it's headed.ACTIONSClaw. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit , reach 5 ft., one target.Hit: 6 (ld4 + 4) slashing damage plus 3 (ld6) necrotic damage.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 219IISKULL LORDSkull lords have claimed vast regions of the Shad-owfell as their dominion. From these blighted lands,they wage war against their rivals, commandinghordes of the undying in a bid to establish domi-nance . Yet skull lords always prove to be theirown worst enemies; each is a combined beingborn from three hateful individuals, and they con-stantly plot against themselves.Infighting and treachery brought skull lords intoexistence. The first of them appeared in the after-math of Vecna's bid to conquer the world of Grey-hawk, after the vampire Kas betrayed Vecna andtook his eye and hand. In the confusion resultingfrom this turn of events, Vecna's warlords turnedagainst each other, and his plans were dashed. In arage , Vecna gathered up his generals and captainsand bound them in groups of three, fusing them intoabominations c ursed to fight among themselves forall time. Since the first skull lords were exiled intothe shadows, others have arisen , typically createdfrom other leaders who betrayed their ma sters.SKULL LORDMedium Undead (Sorcerer), Typically Lawful EvilArmor Class 18 (plate)Hit Points 112 (l 5d8 + 45)Speed 30 ft .STR14 (+2)DEX16 (+3)CON17 (+3)INT16 (+3)WIS15 (+2)CHA21 (+5)Skills Athletics +7 , History +8 , Perception +12 , Stealth +8Damage Resistances cold, necrotic; bludgeoning, piercing, andslashing from nonmagical attacksDamage Immunities poisonCondition Immunities blinded, charmed, deafened , exhaustion,frightened, poisoned , stunned , unconsciousSenses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 22Languages all the languages it knew in lifeChallenge 15 (13 ,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +5Evasion . If the sku ll lord is subjected to an effect that allows itto make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half the damage,the skull lord instead takes no damage if it succeeds on thesav in g throw and only half damage if it fails, provided it isn'tincapacitated.Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the sku ll lord fails a savingthrow, it can cho ose to succeed instead.Master of the Grave. While within 30 feet of the sku ll lord , anyUn dead ally of the s kull lord makes saving throws with advan-tage, and that ally regains ld6 hit points whenever it starts it sturn there.Unusual Nature. The skul l lord doe s n't require air, food ,drink, or sleep.220 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYMultiattack. The skul l lord makes three Bone Staff or DeathlyRay attacks.Bone Staff. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft. , onetarget. Hit: 7 (ld8 + 3) bludgeoning damage plus 21 (6d6) ne-crotic damage.Deathly Ray. Ranged Spell Attack: +10 to hit , range 60 ft. , onetarget. Hit: 27 (5d8 + 5) necrotic damage.Spellcasting. Th e skul l lord casts one of the following spells,using Charisma as the spe ll cast in g abil it y (spell save DC 18):At wi ll: mage hand, message2/day each: dimension door.fear1/day each: cloud kill , cone of coldLEGENDARY ACTIONSThe skull lord can take 3 legendary actions, choosing fromthe opt ions below. Only one legendary action option can beused at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn.The skull lord regains spent legendary actions at the startof its turn.Attack. The sk ull lord makes one Bone Staff or DeathlyRay a tt ack.Move. The skull lord moves up to its speed without provokingopportunity attacks .Summon Undead (Costs 2 Actions). Th e sku ll lord summonsup to five skeletons or zombies (both appear in the MonsterManual) in unoccupied s paces within 30 feet of it . Theyremain until destroyed. Undead s ummoned in this wa y rollinitiative, act in the next available turn, and obey the skulllord. The skull lord can have no more than five Undead sum-moned by this ability at a time.SLITHERING TRACKERMedium Ooze, Typically Chaotic E~ilArmor Class 14Hit Points 39 (6d8 + 12)Speed 30 ft ., climb 30 ft., swim 30 ft .STR16 (+3)DEX19 (+4)CON15 (+2)Skills Stealth +8, Survival +6Damage Vulnerabilities cold , fireINT10 (+0)WIS14 (+2)CHA11 (+0)Damage Resistances bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing fromnonmagical attacksCondition Immunities blinded, deafened, exhaustion , grappled ,paralyzed, petrified, prone, restrained , unconsciousSenses blindsight 120 ft., passi ve Perception 12Languages understands languages it knew in its previous formbut can 't speakChallenge 3 (700 X P) Proficiency Bonus +2False Appearance. If the slithering tracker is motionless at thestart of combat, it has advantage on its initiati ve roll. Moreover,if a creature hasn't observed the slithering tracker move or act,that creature must succeed on a DC 18 Intelligence (Investiga-tion) check to discern that the slithering tracker isn't a puddle .Liquid Form. The slithering tracker can enter an enemy's spaceand stop there. It can also move through a space as narrow as lin ch wi de without squeezing.Spider Climb. The slithering tracker can climb difficult surfaces,including upside down on ce ilings, without needing to make anab ilit y check.ACTIONSSlam. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.Hit: 8 (ldl0 + 3) bludgeoning damage.Life Leech. One Large or smaller creature that the slitheringtracker can see within 5 feet of it must succeed on a DC 13 Dex-terity saving throw or be grappled (escape DC 13). Until thisgrapple ends, the target is re strained and unable to breathe un-le ss it can breathe water. In addition, the grappled target takes16 (3dl0) necrotic damage at the start of each of its turns . Theslithering tracker can grapple only one target at a time.Wh ile grappling the target, the sl ithering tracker takes onlyhalf any damage dealt to it (rounded down), and the targettakes the other half.BONUS ACTIONSWatery Stealth. If underwater, the slither in g tracker takes theHide action, and it makes the Dexterity (Stealth) check withadvantage.SLITHERING TRACKERThe quest for revenge sometimes leads those terri-bly aggrieved to undergo a ritual whereby they trans-form into bodies of semiliquid sentience known asslithering trackers. Innocuous and insidious at thesame time, a slithering tracker flows into placeswhere a normal creature can't go and brings its ownbrand of watery death down on its quarry.The ritual for creating a slithering tracker isknown to hags, liches, and priests who worshipgods of vengeance. It can be performed only on awilling creature that hungers for revenge. The ritualsucks all the moisture from the subject's body, kill-ing it. Yet the subject's mind lives on in the puddlethat issues forth from the remains, and so too doesits insatiable need for retribution.A slithering tracker tast es the ground it coursesover, seeking any trace of its prey. To kill, a slither-ing tracker rises up and enshrouds a creature, at-tempting to drown the creature while also drainingit of blood.Achieving revenge against its target doesn't end aslithering tracker's existence or its hunger for blood.Some slithering trackers remain aware of their pur-pose and extend their quest for vengeance to others,such as anyone who supported or befriended theoriginal target. Most of the time, though, a tracker'smind can't cope with being trapped in liquid form,unable to communicate , and driven by the desire forblood; after fulfilling its duty, the overwhelmed crea-ture attacks indiscriminately until it is destroyed.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 221SORROWSWORNThe Shadowfell's pervasive melancholy sometimesgives rise to strange incarnations of the plane'sbleak nature. Sorrowsworn embody the forms ofsuffering inherent to the shadowy l andscape andvisit horror on those who stumble into their midst.Each sorrowsworn personifies a different aspect ofdespair or distress.ANGRY SORROWSWORNRelying on violence to sustain their existence, angrysorrowsworn - sometimes called the Angry- growmore powerful when their foes fight back. If a crea-ture opts not to attack, though, this sorrowswornbecomes confused, and its attacks weaken. Italso has two heads, which bicker with each otherincessantly.HUNGRY SORROWSWORNHorrible cr eatures with grasping claws and dis-tended jaws, hungry sorrowsworn - a lso known asthe Hungry - do whatever is necessary to sate theirappetites. These greedy devourers stuff their mawswith flesh and drink in their victims' screams . Whenthey finish , they lurch away while their bright eyesresume the search for something else to co nsum e.LONELYSORROWSWORNThe sorrow of isolation afflicts many creatures thatlurk in the Shadowfell, but the need for companion-ship is never manifested more dramatically thanin the lonely sorrowsworn - a lso called the Lonely.When these sorrowsworn spot other creatures , theyfeel keenly the need for interaction and launch theirharpoon-like arms to drag their victims closer.LOST SORROWSWORNThe Shadowfell turns visitors around until they be-come marooned in its twisted landscape. Lost sor-rowsworn - often referred to as the Lost - are repre-sentations of the anxiety and fear people experiencewhen they can't find their way. These sorrowswornapp e ar desperate and panicked.Lost sorrowsworn grasp at any creatures they canreach. A victim experiences a flood of fear and panicas its mind buckles under the fury of this assault.The harder a victim's allies fight to break the grasp ,the more the victim suffers.WRETCHED SORROWSWORNHorrid little monsters , wretched sorrowsworn-o rthe Wre tched- gather in packs to scour the Shadow-fell for prey. These desperate entities subsist on lifeforce; when they find a creature, they s ur ge forwardto sink their fangs into their victims and drink deep.222 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYANGRY SORROWSWORNMedium Monstrosity, Typically Neutral EvilArmor Class 18 (natural armor)Hit Points 255 (30d8 + 120)Speed 30 ft .STR17 (+3)DEX10 (+O)Skills Pe rception +11CON19 (+4)INT8 (- 1)WIS13 (+l)CHA6 (-2)Damage Resistances bludgeoning, pie rcing, and slashing whilein dim light or darknessSenses darkvi sion 60 ft. , passive Perception 21Languages CommonChallenge 13 (10,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +5Two Heads. The sorrowsworn has advantage on saving throwsagainst being blinded, charmed, deafened , frightened , stunned,or knocked unconscious.Rising Anger. If another creatu re deals damage to the sorrow-sworn, the sorrowsworn's attack rolls have advantage until theend of its next turn, and the first time it hits with a Hook attackon its next turn, the attack's target takes an extra 19 (3dl2)psychic damage.On it s turn, the sorrowsworn has disadvantage on attack rollsif no other creature has dealt damage to it since the end of itslast turn.ACTIONSMultiattack. The sorrowsworn makes two Hook attacks.Hook. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft. , one target.Hit: 16 (2d l2 + 3) piercing damage.HUNGRY SORROWSWORNMedium Monstrosity, Typically Neutral EvilArmor Class 17 (natural armo r)Hit Points 225 (30d8 + 90)Speed 30 ft .STR19 (+4)DEX10 (+0)CON17 (+3)INT6 (-2)WIS11 (+0)CHA6 (-2)Damage Resistances bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing whilein dim light or darknessSenses darkvision 60 ft ., passive Perception l 0Languages CommonChallenge 11 (7,200 XP) Proficiency Bonus +4Life Hunger. If a creature within 60 feet of the sorrowswornregains hit points, the sorrowsworn gains two benefits untilthe end of its next turn: it has advantage on attack rolls, and itsBite deals an extra 22 (4dl0) necrotic damage on a hit.ACTIONSMultiattack. The sorrowsworn makes one Bite attack and oneClaw attack.Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one tar-get. Hit: 8 (ld8 + 4) piercing damage plus l3 (3d8) ne-crotic damage.Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target.Hit: 18 (4d6 + 4) slashing damage. If the target is Medium orsmaller, it is grappled (escape DC 16), and it is restrained untilthe grapple ends. While grappling a creature, the sorrowsworncan 't make a Claw attack.LONELYSORROWSWORNMedium Monstrosity, Typically Neutral EvilArmor Class 16 (natural armor)Hit Points 112 (l5d8 + 45)Speed 30 ft.STR16 (+3)DEX12 (+l)CON17 (+3)INT6 (-2)WIS11 (+0)CHA6 (-2)Damage Resistances bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing whilein dim light or darknessSenses darkvision 60 ft ., passive Perception l 0Languages CommonChallenge 9 (5,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +4Psychic Leech. At the start of each of the sorrowsworn's turns,each creature within 5 feet of it must succeed on a DC 15 Wis-dom saving throw or take 10 (3d6) psychic damage.Thrives on Company. The sorrowsworn has advantage on attackrolls while it is within 30 feet of at least two other creatures. Itotherwise has disadvantage on attack rolls.ACTIONSMultiattack. The sorrowsworn makes one Harpoon Arm at-tack, and it uses Sorrowful Embrace.Harpoon Arm. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 60 ft.,one target. Hit: 21 (4d8 + 3) piercing damage, and the target isgrappled (escape DC 15) if it is a Large or smaller creature. Thesorrowsworn has two harpoon arms and can grapple up to twocreatures at once.Sorrowful Embrace. Each creature grappled by the sorrowswornmust make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw, taking 18 (4d8)psychic damage on a failed save , or half as much damage on asuccessful one. In either case, the sorrowsworn pulls each ofthose creatures up to 30 feet straight toward it.ICHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 223LOST SORROWSWORNMedium Monstrosity, Typically Neutral E~ilArmor Class 15 (natural armor)Hit Points 78 (l 2d8 + 24)Speed 30 ft.STR17 (+3)DEX12 (+l}Skills Athletics +6CON15 (+2}INT6 (-2)WIS7 (-2)CHA5 (-3)Damage Resistances bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing whilein dim light or darknessSenses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 8Languages CommonChallenge 7 (2,900 XP) Proficiency Bonus +3ACTIONSMultiattack. The sorrowsworn makes two Arm Spike attacks.Arm Spike. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 10 ft., onetarget. Hit: 14 (2dl0 + 3) piercing damage.Embrace (Recharge 4-6). Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach5 ft., one target. Hit: 25 (4dl0 + 3) piercing damage, and thetarget is grappled (escape DC 14) if it is a Medium or smallercreature. Until the grapple ends, the target is frightened, and ittakes 27 (6d8) psychic damage at the end of each of its turns.The sorrowsworn can grapple only one creature at a time.REACTIONSTightening Embrace. If the sorrowsworn takes damage, thecreature grappled by Embrace takes 18 (4d8) psychic damage.224 CHAPTER 2 I BESTlARYWRETCHED SORROWSWORNSmall Monstrosity, Typically Neutral E~ilArmor Class 15 (natural armor)Hit Points 10 (4d6 - 4)Speed 40 ft.STR7 (-2)DEX12 (+l}CON9 (-1)INT5 (-3)WIS6 (-2)CHA5 (-3)Damage Resistances bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing whilein dim light or darknessSenses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 8Languages-Challenge 1/4 (SO XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Wretched Pack Tactics. The sorrowsworn has advantage onan attack roll against a creature if at least one of the sorrow-sworn's allies is within 5 feet of the creature and the ally isn'tincapacitated. The sorrowsworn otherwise has disadvantage onattack rolls .ACTIONSBite. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.Hit: 6 (ldlO + l) piercing damage, and the sorrowsworn at-taches to the target. While attached, the sorrowsworn can'tattack, and at the start of each of the sorrowsworn's turns, thetarget takes 6 (l dlO + l) necrotic damage.The attached sorrowsworn moves with the target wheneverthe target moves, requiring none of the sorrowsworn's move-ment. The sorrowsworn can detach itself by spending 5 feet ofits movement on its turn. A creature, including the target, canuse its action to detach the sorrowsworn.SPAWN OF KYUSSMedium Undead, Typi cally Cha otic EvilArmor Class 10Hit Points 76 (9d8 + 36)Speed 30 ft.STR16 (+3)DEX11 (+O)CON18 (+4)Saving Throws Wis +lDamage Immunities poisonINT5 (-3 )Condition Immunities exhaustion , poisonedWIS7 (-2)Senses darkvision 60 ft ., passive Perception 8Languages understands the languages it knew in life but can'tspeakChallenge 5 (1,800 XP) Proficiency Bonus +3Regeneration. The spawn of Kyuss regain s 10 hit points at thestart of it s turn if it ha s at least l hit point and isn't in sunlightor a bod y of running water. If th e sp aw n takes acid, fire, orra di ant dama ge, thi s trait do es n't function at the start of th esp aw n's next turn . Th e sp aw n is des troyed onl y if it start s itsturn wit h O hi t p oi nts a nd d oes n' t rege nerate.Worms. If the sp aw n of Kyuss is targeted by an effect that curesdi sea se or rem ov es a curs e, a ll th e wo rm s infestin g it witheraway , and it loses its Burrow in g Wo rm action.Unusual Nature . The spawn of Kyuss requires no air, food ,drink , or sleep.ACTIONSMultiattack. The spawn of Kyuss ma ke s two Cla w attacks , andit uses Burrow in g Wo rm .Claw. Melee We ap on A tt ack: +6 to hi t, reach 5 ft ., on e target.H it : 6 (ld6 + 3) s la shing damage plus 7 (2d6) necrotic damag e.Burrowing Worm . A worm la un ches fr om the s pa wn of Kyussat one Humanoid that the sp aw n ca n see within 10 feet ofit.The worm latches onto the targe t' s s kin unless the target suc-ceed s on a DC 11 De xterity sav in g thro w. The worm is a TinyUndead with AC 6, l hit point, a 2 (- 4) in every ability score,a nd a speed of l foot. Whil e on th e targe t's skin , the wormca n be ki lled by normal me an s o r scraped off using an action(the spawn can use Burrowin g Wo rm to launch a scraped-offwo rm at a Humanoid it can see within 10 feet of the worm).Othe rwi se, the worm burro ws unde r th e target' s skin at theend of the tar g et 's next turn , dea lin g l piercin g damage to it . Atthe e nd of each of it s turn s th ereaft e r, the target ta kes 7 (2d6)necrotic dam age per wo rm infesting it (ma ximum of 10d6), andifit drop s to O hit po ints, it dies and then rises 10 minutes lateras a spawn of Kyuss. If a worm-infested target is targeted byan effect th at cures di s ease or removes a curse , all the wormsinfesting it with er away .SPAWN OF KYUSSKy u ss was a high p riest of Orcus (app ears in th isboo k) who plundered corpses fro m n ecropolises tocrea te th e fi rst spawn of Kyuss. Even cen t uries afterKyuss's dea th, his malign disciples continue per-formi ng the horrific rites he perfected .From a dista nce or in poor light, a spawn of Ky-uss looks li ke an ordinary zombie. As it comes intoclearer view, however, the scores of li ttle greenwor ms cr aw ling in a nd out of it become visible.Th ese wor ms j um p onto nearby Humanoi ds andbur row into their fl esh. A worm that penetrates aHu ma noid body makes its way to the cr eat ure'sbrai n. Once inside the brain, the worm kills its hostand animates the corpse , transforming it into aspawn of Kyuss, which breeds more worms.S p awn of Ky u ss are expressions of Orcus 's intentto replace a ll li fe with undeath. Left to its own de-vices, a solitary spawn of Ky u ss travels aim lessly.If it st umb les across a li vi ng creature, the spawnat t acks with the so le intent of creating mor e spawn.Whet h er spawn are dispersed or clustered, they r e-produ ce exponentially if not hing st ops them.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 225II~fa,u /4n :t-~ ~ ,Ue~.~ud~~~h~ft~~ned#.-?n~STAR SPAWNThe Material Plane represents only one small partof the multiverse. Beyond the best-known planes ofexistence lie realms alien to mortal life. Some areso hostile that even a moment's contact is enough tobreak a mortal's mind. Yet beings do exist that arenative to these realms: entities that are ever hunger-ing, searching, warring, and sometimes dreaming .These Elder Evils are far older than most of themortal peoples and always inimical to such crea-tures' minds.However much they might desire to enter anddominate the Material Plane, the Elder Evils areunable or unwilling to leave their realms. Some areimprisoned in their dim e nsions by external forces,some are inextricably bound to their home realities,and others simply can't find any way out.The creatures known as star spawn are the her-alds, servants, and soldiers of the Elder Evils, capa-ble of taking on forms that can journey to the Mate-rial Plane. They arrive most often in the wake of acomet-or perhaps this phenomenon merely signalsthat star spawn are in the vicinity and available forcommunication. When the signs are right, cultistsgather together, read aloud their blasphemous texts,and conduct the mind-searing rituals that guide starspawn into the world.ELDER EVIL BLESSINGSDisciples of certain Elder Evils can bestow super-natural gifts on those who serve that cult, includingstar spawn. The following powers are unique to spe-cific cults; typically a creature has only one.CULT OF ATROPUS, THE WORLD BORN DEADGaze of Corruption (Recharge 6). The cultist targets one crea-ture it can see within 30 feet of it. The target must succeed ona DC 15 Constitution saving throw or take 16 (3dl0) necroticdamage and be poisoned for l minute . The poisoned targetcan repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns , end-ing the effect on itself on a success.CULT OF BOREM OF THE LAKE OF BOILING MuoBorem's Embrace (1/Day). The cultist touches one creaturewithin 5 feet ofit . The target must succeed on a DC 15 De xter-ity saving throw or be coated in sticky, steaming mud. While itis coated in this way, the target's speed is halved, it can't usereactions , and it takes l 0 (3d6) fire damage at the start of eachof its turns. The effect lasts for l minute, until the cultist is in-capacitated or dies, or until the target is immersed in water.226 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYCULT OF HAASK, THE VOICE OF HARGUTHaask's Presence (1/Day). The cultist transforms into a Tiny,slug-like being and teleports onto the shoulder of a Human-oid that it can see within 30 feet of it. The targeted Human-oid must succeed on a DC 15 Charisma saving throw or becharmed by the cultist. While the target is charmed, the cultisthas control of it on the target's next turn . At the end of thatturn, the cultist teleports to an unoccupied space it can seewithin 30 feet of it and returns to its normal form . The cultistcan't be targeted directly by any attack or other effect whileit's in the slug-like form, but it is subject to areas of effectas normal.CuLT OF THAR1zouN, THE CHAINED GooTharizdun's Spark (Recharge 6). As a bonus action , the cultisttouches a simple or martial weapon or a natural weapon, if ithas one. The next creature hit by the touched weapon mustsucceed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or have disadvan-tage on all ability checks. The affected creature can repeat thesaving throw at the end of each minute, ending the effect onitself on a success.CULT OF TYRANTHRAXUS, THE FLAMED ONERadiant Flames (1/Day). Multihued flame surrounds the cultistfor l minute, until the cultist is incapacitated or dies, or untilthe cultist extinguishes the flame (no action required). Whileinflamed, the cultist has telepathy with a range of 30 feet, andit can teleport as a bonus action up to 30 feet to an unoccupiedspace it can see. In addition, every creature that starts its turnwithin 5 feet of the cultist must make a DC 15 Dexterity savingthrow, taking 16 (3dl0) radiant damage on a failed save, or halfas much damage on a successful one.STAR SPAWN GRUEFanged and lipless, the ever-grinning, eerily staringgrue lopes about on spindly legs and long arms.Bristles and spines project from odd patches ofits grayish skin, and its long fingers end in bro-ken and dirty nails. Grues are the weakest of thestar spawn. A host of writhing, scrambling gruestypically accompanies more powerful star spawn.Their constant chittering and shrieking producediscordant psychic energy that disrupts thought pat-terns in other creatures, which experience flashingcolors, hallucinations, disorientation, and waves ofhopelessness.STAR SPAWN HULKThe hulk is one of the largest of the known starspawn, with glistening, translucent skin. Pale andseemingly lidless eyes glare balefully from a facedistorted by too many teeth and too little nose .Hulks are se ldom enco unt ered without a com-manding star spawn seer (also in this book) nearby.A hulk appears to have little will of its own and isdriv en to protect its master.STAR SPAWN GRUESmall Ab erration, Typically Neutral EvilArmor Class 17Hit Points 17 (Sd6)Speed 30 ft.STR6 (- 2)DEX13 (+l)CON10 (+0)Damage Immunities ps ychicINT9 (-1)WIS17 (+0)Senses darkvision 60 ft ., passive Perception l 0Languages Deep SpeechCHA6 (-2)Challenge 1/4 (SO XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Aura of Shrieks. Creatures within 20 feet of the gr ue that aren'tAberrations ha ve di sad va nta ge on sav in g throws, as we ll as onattack rolls aga in st creatures other th an a sta r spawn grue.ACTIONSConfounding Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft.,one target. Hit: 6 (2d4 + l) piercing damage, and the targetmust succeed on a DC 10 Wisdom saving th row or attack rollsagainst it have advantage until the start of the grue's next turn.Large Aberration, Typically Chaotic EvilArmor Class 16 (natural armor)Hit Points 136 (l3dl0 + 65)Speed 30 ft .STR20 (+ S)DEX8 (- 1)CON21 (+ S)Saving Throws De x +3 , Wis +SSkills Perception +5INT7 (- 2)WIS12 (+l)CHA9 (-1)Damage Resistances bludgeoning, piercing, and sl ashing fromnonmagical attacksCondition Immunities charmed, frightenedSenses darkvision 60 ft ., passive Perception l 5Languages Deep SpeechChallenge 10 (5,900 XP) Proficiency Bonus +4Psychic Mirror. If the hulk takes psychic damage, each creaturewith in 10 feet of the hulk takes that damage instead; the hulktakes none ofthe damage. In addition, the hulk 's thoughts andlocation can 't be discerned by magic .ACTIONSMultiattack. The hulk makes t wo Slam att acks. If both attackshit the sa me target, the target also takes 9 (2d8) psychic dam-age an d must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw orbe st unn ed until the end of the target's next turn.Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target .H it: 14 (2d8 + 5) bludgeoning damage.Reaping Arms (Recharge 5-6). The hulk makes a separate Slamattack against each creature with in 10 feet ofit . Each creaturethat is hit must also succeed on a DC 17 Dexterity saving throwor be knocked prone.ICHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 227STAR SPAWN LARVA MAGEA larva mage is a nightmarish combination of amortal body and otherworldly substance. When apowerful cultist of a wormlike entity such as Kyussor Kezef-usually a warlock or other spellcaster -contacts the comet-borne emissary of an Elder Evil,the emissary can merge with a mortal conscious-ness to create a larva mage. None of the originalcultist's personality survives the transformation;what emerges is wholly alien.STAR SPAWN LARVA MAGEMedium Aberration , Typica ll y Chaotic EvilArmor Class 16 (natura l armor)Hit Points 168 (l 6d8 + 96)Speed 30 ft.STR17 (+3)DEX12 (+l)CON23 (+ 6)INT18 (+4)Saving Throws Dex +6 , Wis + 6, Cha +8Skills Perception +6WIS12 (+l)CHA16 (+3)Damage Resistances cold ; bludgeoning, piercing, and slashingfrom nonmagical attacksDamage Immunities psych icCondition Immunities charmed , frightened , paralyzed,petrified , poisoned , re strainedSenses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 16Languages Deep SpeechChallenge 16 (15,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +5Return to Worms. When the mage is reduced to O hit points, itbreaks apart into a swarm of insects (see the Monster Manual)in the same space. Unless the swarm is destroyed, the magereforms from it 24 hours later.ACTIONSMultiattack. The mage ma kes three Slam or EldritchBolt attacks.Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target.Hit : 7 (ld8 + 3) bludgeoning damage, and the target must suc-ceed on a DC 19 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned untilthe end of its next turn .Eldritch Bolt. Ranged Spell Attack: +8 to hit, range 60 ft. , onetarget. Hit: 19 (3dl O + 3) force damage.Plague of Worms (Recharge 6). Each creature other than a starspawn within 10 feet of the mage must succeed on a DC 19De xterity saving throw or take 22 (Sd8) necrotic damage andbe blinded a nd restrained by masses of swarming wo rms. Theaffected creature takes 22 (Sd8) necrotic damage at the startof each of the mage's turns. The creature can repeat the savingthrow at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itselfon a success.228 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY•Spellcasting. The mage casts one of the following spells, requir·ing no material components and using Charisma as the spell-casting ability (spell save DC 16) :At w ill: mage hand, message, minor illusion1/day: dominate monsterREACTIONSFeed on Weakness. When a creature within 20 feet of the ma gefails a saving throw, the mage gains 10 temporary hit points.LEGENDARY ACTIONSThe mage can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the op-tions below. Onl y one legendary action option can be used at atime and only at the end of another creature's turn. The mageregains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn.Slam. The mage makes one Slam attack.Eldritch Bolt (Costs 2 Actions). The mage makes one EldritchBolt attack .Feed (Costs 3 Actions). Each creature restrained by the mage'sPlague of Worms takes 13 (3d8) necrotic damage, and themage gains 6 temporary hit points .STAR SPAWN MANGLERA mangler is a low-slung, creeping horror with mul-tiple gangly arms - it most often has six arms butcan have any number from four to eight. Manglerscreep along the ground or the walls, sticking toshadows and hiding in spots that seem too shallowor well-lit to concea l anything . They appear smallerthan their true size, thanks to their hunched postureand emaciated frames. Cultists summon these crea-tures to serve as guards and assassins, two roles atwhich they exce l.STAR SPAWN MANGLERMedium Aberration, Typically Chaotic E~ilArmor Class 14Hit Points 71 (13d8 + 13)Speed 40 ft ., climb 40 ft.STR8 (- 1)DEX18 (+ 4)CON12 (+ l)Saving Throws Dex +7, Con +4Skills Stealth +7Damage Resistances coldDamage Immunities ps ychi cINT11 (+ 0)WIS12 (+ l)Condition Immun ities ch a rm e d , fri gh te ned , pro neSenses da rkvision 60 ft ., p assive Pe r ce ption 11Languages De ep SpeechCHA7 (-2)Challenge 5 (1, 8 00 X P) Proficiency Bonus +3Ambusher. The mangler has advantage on initiative rolls.ACTIONSMultiattack. The mangler makes two Claw attacks.Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft. , one target.Hit: 8 (ld8 + 4) slashing damage. If the attack roll has advan-tage , the target also takes 7 (2d6) psychic damage.Flurry of Claws (Recharge 5-6). The mangler makes six Clawattacks. Either before or after these attacks, it can move up toits speed without provoking opportunity attacks.BONUS ACTIONSShadow Stealth. While in dim light or darkness , the manglertakes the Hide action.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 229STAR SPAW N SEERA star spawn seer is most often encountered as theleader of a cult dedicated to one or more Elder Evils.Usually, the seer is the only cult member that graspsthe full extent of the horror the cult is venerating .The seer 's goal is to tap into vast energy sourcesand perform the dire rites that will extend a bridgebetwe en the Material Plane and the squirmingchaos of an Elder Evil's realm.An entity that app e ars as a star spawn seer in theMaterial Plane usually arrives disembodied. Whena warlock or other spellcaster establishes commu-nication with it, th e seer -entity takes control of themortal, transforming it into a star spawn seer. Who-ever the mortal on ce was largely vanishes beneaththe mass of tumorous skin than builds up in strangewhorls all ov er the s ee r's body. Th e mortal's handsbecom e bulky, flipper-like appendag es able to graspthe s ee r's strange staff formed of a blend of flesh,bone, and star stuff.A star spawn seer is almost always accompaniedby one or more star spawn hulks (also in this book).Not only is a hulk a powerful combatant, but whena seer deals psychic damage to a hulk, the hulk isn'thurt , and the effect ricochets off and expands to as-sault other creatures .STAR SPAWN SEERMedium Aberration, Typically Neutral EvilArmor Class 17 (natu ral a rm o r)Hit Points 153 (l 8d8 + 72)Speed 30 ft .STR14 (+2)DEX12 (+ l)CON18 (+4)INT22 (+6)WIS19 (+ 4)Saving Throws Dex +6 , Int+ 11 , Wis +9, Cha +8Skills Perce pti on +9CHA16 (+3)Damage Resistances col d; bl udgeo nin g, pie rci n g, and s las hin gfr om nonmagic al attacksDamage Immunities psych icCondition Immunities charmed, fr ightenedSenses darkvi sion 60 ft ., pass ive Perception 19Languages Common, Dee p Speech , Und ercommonChallenge 13 (10 ,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +5Out-of Phase Movement. The seer can move through othercreatures and objects as if they were difficult terrain, and itsmovement doesn't provoke opportunity attacks.Each creature it moves through takes 5 (ldl0) psychic dam -age; no creature can take this damage more than once per turn.Th e seer takes 5 (ldl0) force damage ifit ends it s turn insidean object.ACTIONSMultiattack. The seer makes two Comet Staff or PsychicOrb attacks.Comet Staff. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft ., onetarget . Hit: 10 (ld8 + 6) bludgeoning damage plus 18 (4d8)ps ychic damage, and if the target is a creatu re , it must succeedon a DC 19 Constitution saving throw or be incapacitated untilthe end of its next turn.Psychic Orb. Ranged Spell Attack:+ 11 to hit, range 120 feet , onecreature. Hit: 27 (5dl0) psychic damage.Collapse Distance (Recharge 6). The seer warps space aroundone creature it can see with in 30 feet of it . That creature mustmake a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the tar-get, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, is tele-ported up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space the seer can see,and then each creature within 10 feet of the target's originalspace takes 39 (6dl2) psychic damage. On a successful save,the target takes 19 (3dl2) psychic damage and isn 't teleported.REACTIONSBend Space. When the seer would be hit by an attack roll , itteleports, along wit h any equipment it is wearing or carry in g,exchanging positions with another star spawn it can see within60 feet ofit. The other star spawn is hit by the attack instead.STEEDERSGiant hunting spiders, steeders prowl the depths ofthe Underdark. Female steeders grow larger andstronger than males, and the female often devoursthe male after breeding. Numerous Underdark folkdomesticate steeders, particularly duergar (also inthis book). Typically the females serve as steeds inbattle, while the males are used as draft animals.Steeders attempt to tear apart perceived threats -and consider even other steeders enemies. Whenthey're put to work, their handlers must stable themseparately from one another and place blinders onthem to keep them from attacking each other.Steeders are intelligent enough tolearn simple hand signals and vocalcommands , but even a domesticatedsteeder might turn against its handler.Training a steeder requires a riderto bond with it, a process that beginsshortly after the steeder hatches. As itgrows, its rider works with it to directits predatory instincts.Rather than spinning webs, steed-ers excrete a viscous substance fromtheir legs. This goo allows them tocreep along walls and ceilings and tograpple prey.FEMALE STEEDERLarge Monstrosity, UnalignedArmor Class 14 (natural armor)Hit Points 30 (4dl0 + 8)Speed 30 ft ., climb 30 ft.STR15 (+2)DEX16 (+3)CON14 (+2)Skills Stealth +7 , Perception +4INT2 (-4)WIS10 (+O)Senses darkvision 120 ft ., passive Perception 14Languages-CHA3 (- 4)Challenge 1 (200 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Extraordinary Leap. The distance of the steeder's long jumpsis tripled; every foot of its walking speed that it spends on thejump allows it to move 3 feet.Spider Climb. The steeder can climb difficult surfaces, in -cluding upside down on ceilings, without needing to make anabi lity check.ACTIONSBite. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft. , one target.Hit: 7 (ld8 + 3) piercing damage plus 9 (2d8) poison damage.Sticky Leg. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft. , one Me-dium or smaller creature. Hit: The target is stuck to the steed-er's leg and grappled (escape DC 12). The steeder can haveonly one creature grappled at a time.Medium Monstrosity, UnalignedArmor Class 12 (natural armo r)Hit Points 13 (2d8 + 4)Speed 30 ft., climb 30 ft .STR15 (+2)DEX12 (+l)CON14 (+2)Skills Stealth +5 , Perception +4INT2 (-4)WIS10 (+O)Senses darkvision 120 ft ., passive Perception 14Languages-CHA3 (-4)Challenge 1/4 (SO XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Extraordinary Leap. The distance of the steeder's long jumpsis tripled; every foot of its walking speed that it spends on thejump allows it to jump 3 feet.Spider Climb. The steeder can climb difficult surfaces, in-cluding upside down on ceilings, without needing to make anability check.ACTIONSBite. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft. , one target.Hit: 6 (ld8 + 2) piercing damage plus 4 (ld8) poison damage.Sticky Leg. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., oneSmall or Tiny creature. Hit: The target is stuck to the steeder'sleg and grappled (escape DC 12) . The steeder can have onlyone creature grappled at a time.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 231STEELPREDATORA steel predator is a mer-ciless machine with onepurpose: to locate and killits target regardless of dis-tance and obstacles.Steel predators are created bya unique modron, using a machine lo-cated in the city of Sigi l. It wasn't alwaysheadquartered in the City of Doors, however. On itsoriginal home, the plane of Mechanus, the ingeniousmodron was lauded for its invention- until it turnedthese creations against its superiors. Steel preda-tors wreaked havoc against the modron hierarchyuntil the rogue modron was trapped and exiled.Now it operates a shop in Sigil where, for a steepprice, anyone can commission the manufacture of asteel predator.To create a steel predator, the modron's machinemust be fed something that identifies the predator'starget, such as a lock of hair, a well-worn glove, or amuch-used weapon. The moment the newly manu-factured steel predator emerges, it bounds away insearch of its prey. It senses the location of its targetacross planar boundaries, but such detection is ac-curate only to within a thousand yards; to close theremaining distance, the steel predator locates itsprey by sight and smell.Once battle is joined, the predator ignores everyother threat to attack its target, unless other crea-tures prevent it from reaching the target. In thatcase, it does what it must to fulfill its mission.If all goes according to plan, a steel predatorslays its target and then voluntarily returns to Sigil,where it's broken down into parts that can be usedin another steel predator. Battle damage can causethis instinct to fail, however, in which case the steelpredator lingers in the area, hunting and killingother creatures that resemble its target or that sim-ply live nearby. Such rogue predators are dangerousto anyone in the vicinity.232 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYSTEEL PREDATORLarge Construct, Typically Lawful NeutralArmor Class 20 (natural armor)Hit Points 207 (18dl0 + 108)Speed 40 ft.STR24 (+7)DEX17 (+3)CON22 (+6)INT4 (- 3)Skills Perception +7 , Stealth +8 , Survival +7WIS14 (+2)CHA6 (- 2)Damage Resistances cold , lightning, necrotic, thunderDamage Immunities poison , psychic; bludgeoning, piercing,and slashing from nonmagical attacksCondition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, frightened,paralyzed , petrified , poisoned, stunnedSenses blindsight 30 ft ., darkvi s ion 60 ft ., passive Perception 17Languages understands Modron and the language of its ow nerbut can 't speakChallenge 16 (15 ,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +5Mag ic Re sis tance. The stee l predator has advantage on savingthrows against spe lls and other mag ica l effects.Unu s ua l Nature. The steel predator doesn't requ ire air, food,drink, or sleep.ACTIONSMul ti at tack. The steel predator makes one Bite attack and twoClaw attacks.Bit e. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.H it : 18 (2dl0 + 7) lightning damage.Cla w. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.Hit: 16 (2d8 + 7) force damage.Sp ellcasting. T he stee l predator casts one of the followingspel ls, requiring no spe ll components and us ing Wisdom asthe spe ll casting ab il ity:3/day each: dimension door (se lf on ly), plane shift (se lf only)Stunning Ro ar (R echarge 5 -6). T he stee l predator em its a roarin a 60-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC19 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes33 (6dl0) thunder damage, drops everything it's ho lding, andis stunned for 1 minute. The stunned creature can repeat thesaving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effecton itself on a success. On a successful save, a creature takeshalf as much damage and isn't stunned.STONE CURSEDMedium Construct, Typically Lawful EvilArmor Class 17 (natural armor)Hit Points 19 (3d8 + 6)Speed 10 ft .STR16 (+ 3)DEX5 (- 3)CON14 (+ 2)INT5 (- 3)Damage Vulnerabilities bludgeoningDamage Immunities poisonWIS8(-1)CHA7(-2)Condition Immunities charmed , exhau stion, frightened,petrified , poisonedSenses passive Perception 9Languages the languages it knew in lifeChallenge l (200 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Cunning Opportunist. The stone cursed has advantage on theattack rolls of opportunity attacks .False Appearance. If the stone cursed is motionless at the startof combat, it has advantage on its initiative roll. Moreover, ifa creature hasn't observed the stone cursed move or act, thatcreature must succeed on a DC 18 Intelligence (Investigation)check to discern that the stone cursed isn't a statue.Unusual Nature. The stone cursed doesn't require air, food,drink, or s leep.ACTIONSPetrifying Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft.,one target. Hit: 12 (2d8 + 3) slashing damage. If the target isa creature, it must succeed on a DC 12 Constitution savingthrow, or it begins to turn to stone and is restrained until theend of its next turn, when it must repeat the saving throw . Theeffect ends if the second save is successful; otherwise the tar -get is petrified for 24 hours .STONE CURSEDStone c urs ed are spawned through a foul alc hemi -ca l ritual performed on a Human oid that has beenturn ed to stone. The ritual, which requires a mix-ture of basilisk blood and the ashes from the burn edfeathers of a cockatrice, awakens a dim echo of th epetrified victim's spirit, animating the statue andturning it into a useful guardian.Stone cu rsed possess a malevolent drive to slaythe living, yet th ey are utterly loyal to whoever per-formed the ritual to animate them, and they obeythat being's orders to the best of the ir ability.In combat, stony claws th at drip with thick , graysludge emerge from a stone c ursed 's fingers. Thisalchemical sludge transforms those slashed by th eclaws into statues.As part of the ritual used to create a stone cursed,a fist-sized obsidian skull forms within the crea-ture's torso. The skull isn't visible while the stonecursed is active, but when it is slain, the statueshatters and the skull clatters to the ground. Be-cause it is the nexus for the alchemy used to createthese horrors, a faint echo of the original victim'smemories resonates within th e skull. A skilledmagic-wielder can attempt to extract memoriesfrom it to gain insight into the victim's past or findlore that otherwise would be lost.CRYPTIC WHISPERSEven though a creature transformed into a stonecursed is long dead, a vague whisper of their memo-ries lives on in the obsidian skull embedded withinthe stone cursed's body. At the end of a short rest, acharacter can make a DC 20 Intelligence (Arcana)check to attempt to extrac t a m emo ry from the skullthat is a r es ponse to a verbal question pos ed to theskull by the character. Once this check is mad e,whether it succeeds or fails, the skull ca n't be usedin this manner again.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 233STONE GIANTDREAMWALKERThe surface of the world is an alien realm to stonegiants: fluctuating, temporary, exposed to gustingwind and sudden rain. It is as wildly changeab le asa dream, and that's how they regard it- as a dream.Nothing there is permanent, so nothing there isreal. What happens on the surface doesn't matter.Promises and bargains made there needn't be hon-ored. Life and even art hold less value there.Stone giants sometimes go on dream quests inthe surface world, seeking inspiration for their art,a break from decades-long ennui, or satisfaction ofsimple curiosity. Some who go on these quests letthemselves become lost in the dream. Other stonegiants are banished to the surface as punishment.Regardless of the reason they ended up on thesurface, if they don't take shelter under stone, suchstone giants can become dreamwalkers.Dreamwalkers occupy an odd place of respect out-side the stone giant ordning. They are consideredoutcasts, but their familiarity with the surface wor ldmakes them valuable guides, and their insights canhelp other stone giants grasp the dangers of livingin a dream.(4 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYDreamwalkers become divorced from reality byisolation, shame, and their unendingly alien sur-roundings, and this delirium leaches out into theworld around them, affecting other creatures thatget too close. Believing that they're living in a dreamand that their actions have no real consequences,dreamwalkers act as they please, becoming forcesof chaos . As they travel the world, they co ll ect ob-jects and creatures that seem especially significantto them. Over time, the collected things accrete totheir bodies, becoming encased in stone.STONE GIANT DREAMWALKERHu ge Giant, Typically Chaotic NeutralArmor Class 18 (natural armor)Hit Points 161 (14dl2 + 70)Speed 40 ft.STR23 (+6)DEX14 (+2)CON21 (+5)INT10 (+0)Saving Throws De x +6, Con +9, Wis +3Skills Athletic s+ 14 , Perception +3WIS8 (-1)Condition Immunities charmed, frightenedSenses darkvision 60 ft., passive Pe rce ption 13Languages Common, GiantCHA12 (+l)Challenge 10 (5,900 XP) Proficiency Bonus +4Dreamwalker's Charm. An enemy that starts its turn within 30feet of the giant must make a DC 13 Charisma saving throw,provided that the giant isn't incapac it ated. On a failed save, thecreature is charmed by the giant. A creature charmed in thisway can repeat the saving throw at the end of eac h of its turns,ending the effect on itself on a success. Once it succeeds onthe saving throw, the creature is immune to this giant's Dream -wa lker's Charm for 24 hours.ACTIONSMultiattack. The gian t makes two Greatclub or Rock attacks.Greatclub. Melee Weapon Attack:+10 to hit, reach 15 ft., onetarget. Hi t: 24 (4d8 + 6) bludgeoning damage.Rock . Ranged Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, range 60/240 ft., onetarget. Hit : 22 (3dl0 + 6) bludgeoning damage. If the target is acreatur e, it must succeed on a DC 17 Strength saving throw orbe knocked pron e.Petrifying Touch. The giant touches one Medium or sma llercreature with in 10 feet ofit that is charmed by it. Th e targetmust make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw. On a failedsave, the target becomes petrified, and the gia nt can adherethe target to its stony body. Greater restoration spe ll s and othermagic that can undo petrification have no effect on a petrifiedcreature adhered to the giant unless the giant is dead , in whichcase the magic works normally, freeing the petrified creature aswe ll as end in g the petrified condition on it .STORM GIANT QUINTESSENTHu ge Giant, Typi call y Chaotic Goo dArmor Class 12Hit Points 230 (20dl2 + 100)Speed SO ft ., fly SO ft . (hover), swim SO ft.STR29 (+9)DEX14 (+2)CON20 (+S)INT17 (+3)WIS20 (+S)Saving Throws Str +14 , Con +10 , Wis+ 10 , Cha +9Skills Arcana +8 , History +8, Perception +10CHA19 (+4)Damage Resistances cold; bludgeoning, piercing, and slashingfrom nonmagical attacksDamage Immunities lightning, thunderSenses truesight 60 ft., pass ive Perception 20Languages Common , GiantChallenge 16 (lS,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +SAmphibious. The giant can breathe air and water.Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the giant fails a saving throw,it can choose to succeed instead .ACTIONSMultiattack. The giant makes two Lightning Sword attacks, orit uses Wind Javelin twice.Lightning Sword. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 1S ft. ,one target. Hit : 40 (9d6 + 9) lightning damage.Wind javelin. The giant coalesces wind into a javelin-like formand hurls it at a creature it can see within 600 feet of it. Thejavelin deals 19 (3d6 + 9) force damage to the target, strikingunerringly. The javelin disappears after it hits.LEGENDARY ACTIONSThe giant can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the op-tions be low. Only one legendary action option can be used ata time and only at the end of another creature's turn . The giantregains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn .Gust. The giant targets a creature it can see within 60 feet ofit and creates a magical gust of wind around the target, whomust succeed on a DC 18 Strength saving throw or be movedup to 20 feet in any hor izontal direction the giant chooses.Thunderbolt (Costs 2 Actions). The giant hurls a thunderboltat a creature it can see within 600 feet of it. The target mustmake a DC 18 De xterity saving throw, taking 22 (4dl0) thun-der damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on asuccessful one.One with the Storm (Costs 3 Actions). The giant vanishes, dis-persing itself into the storm surrounding its lair. The giantcan end this effect at the start of an y of its turns, becominga giant once more and appearing in any location it chooseswithin its lair. While dispersed , the giant can 't take any ac-tions other than lair actions, and it can't be targeted by at-tacks , spells , or other effect s. The giant can't use this abilityoutside its lair, nor can it use this ability if another creatureis using a control weather spell or similar magic to quellthe storm .STORM GIANT QUINTESSENTTo forestall the inevitable, some storm giants ap-proaching the end of their natural life spans seek anescape from death. They plumb the depths of theirpowerful conn ection to the elements and dispersethemselv es into natur e, transforming into semicon -scious storms. The blizzard that rages unendinglyaround a mountain peak , the vortex that swirlsaround a remote island, or the thunderstorm thathowls ceaselessly up and down a rugged c oastlinecould, in fact , be the undying form of a storm giantclinging to existence.A storm giant quintessent sheds their armor andweapons but gains the power to form makeshiftweapons out of thin air. When the giant has no fur-ther use of these elemental weapons , or wh en thegiant dies, the weapons disappear.A storm giant quintess ent can reve rt to their truegiant form temporarily and can maint a in that formlong enough for th e giant to c ommunicat e with amortal , ca rr y out a short task, or defe nd their homea gainst aggr e ssors . ICHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 235A UINTESSENT'S LAIRA storm giant quintessent has no need for castlesor dungeon lairs. Their lair is usually a secludedregion or prominent geographic feature, such as amountain peak, a great waterfall, a remote island, afog-shrouded loch, a beautiful coral reef, or a wind-swept desert bluff. The storm in which the giantlives could be a blizzard, a typhoon, a thunderstorm,or a sandstorm, as befits the environment.LAIR ACTIONSA storm giant quintessent can use lair actions in gi-ant form and while transformed into a storm. On ini-tiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the giant cantake one of the following lair actions; the giant can'ttake the same lair action two rounds in a row:Deafening Boom. The giant creates a thunderclapcentered on a point anywhere in their lair. Eachcreature within 20 feet of that point must succeedon a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or be deaf-ened until the end of its next turn.Fog. The giant creates a 20-foot-radius sphere offog (or murky water if within water) centered ona point anywhere in its lair. The sphere spreadsaround corners, and its area is heavily obscured.The fog lasts until the giant disperses it (no actionrequired), and it can't be dispersed by wind.23 6 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYGale. The giant creates a 60-foot-long, 10-foot-wideline of strong wind (or strong current within wa-ter) originating from a point anywhere in its lair.Each creature in that line must succeed on a DC18 Strength saving throw or be pushed 15 feet inthe direction the wind is blowing. The gust dis-perses gas or vapor, and it extinguishes candles,torches, and similar unprotected flames in itsarea. Protected flames, such as those of lanterns,have a 50 percent chance of being extinguished.REGIONAL EFFECTSThe region containing a storm giant quintessent'slair is warped by the giant's presence , which createsone or more of the following effects:Downpour. Rain, snow, or blowing dust or sand(whichever is most appropriate) is constant within1 mile of the lair. Rain causes rivers and streamsto fill or overflow their banks; snow, dust, or sandforms deep drifts or dunes.Lightning. Flashes of lightning and peals of thun-der are continual, day and night, within 5 milesof the lair.Winds. High wind blows within 1 mile of the lair,making it impossible to light a fire unless the loca-tion where the fire is lit is protected from the wind.If the giant dies, the lightning, thunder, and highwind regional effects end immediately. Rain, snow,and blowing dust abate gradually within ld8 days.tSWARM OF ROT GRUBSRot grubs ar e finger-sized maggots that e at livingand dead cre atures, although they c an survive onvegetation. They infest c orps es and piles of decay-ing matt er and attack anyone that disturbs them. Af-ter burrowing into a creature, rot grubs instinctivelyc hew their way toward vital parts .Rot grub s r ec oil from flames , and fire is the mainwe apon a gainst rot grubs once they're ins id e a body.Magic that ne utralizes poison c an also stop thembefore they kill their host.SINGLE ROT GRUBRot grubs po se a threat both s ingly and as a swarm.S ee the stat block for th e me chani cs of a swarm ofrot grubs. A single rot grub has no stat block.Any creat u re that com es into contact with a singlerot grub must su cce ed on a DC 10 Cons titution sav-ing throw or be poisoned, as the rot grub burrowsinto the cr e atur e. The poisoned cr e atur e tak es 3(ld6) poison damage at the end of each of its turns.Whenever the poisoned creatur e takes fire damage ,the cre atur e can re peat th e sa ving throw, ending thee ffect on itself on a succ ess. If the poisoned cre atureends its turn with O hit points, it dies, as th e rotgrub kills it.•SWARM OF ROT GRUBSMedium Swarm of Tiny Beasts , UnalignedArmor Class 8Hit Points 22 (5d8)Speed 5 ft ., climb 5 ft .STR2 (- 4)DEX7 (- 2)CON10 (+O)Damage Vulnerabilities fireINTl (-5)Damage Resistances piercing, s lashingWIS2 (- 4)Condition Immunities charmed, frightened , grappled ,paralyzed , petrified , prone , restrainedSenses blindsight 10 ft. , passive Perception 6Languages -CHAl (- 5)Challenge 1/2 (100 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Swarm. The swarm can occupy another creature 's space andvice versa, and the swarm can move through any opening largeenough for a Tiny maggot. The swarm can't regain hit points orga in tem porary hi t poi nt s.ACTIONSBites. Melee Weapon Attack: +Oto hit, reach Oft ., one creaturein the swarm's space. H it: 7 (2d6) piercing damage, and thetarget must s ucceed on a DC 10 Constitution saving throw orbe poiso ne d . At t he en d of each of t he poisoned target's turns,the target takes 3 (1d6) poison damage . Whenever the poi-soned target takes fire damage , the target can repeat the savingthrow, ending the effect on itself on a success. If the poisonedt arget en ds its turn with O hit points, it dies..,,CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 237SWASHBUCKLERMedium Humanoid, Any AlignmentArmor Class 77 (leather armor, Suave Defense)Hit Points 66 (12d8 + 12)Speed 30 ft .STR12 (+l)DEX18 (+ 4)CON12 (+l)INT14 (+2)WIS11 (+O)Skills Acrobatics +8 , Athletics +5 , Persuasion +6Senses passive Perception 10 .Languages any one language (usually Common)CHA15 (+2)Challenge 3 (700 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Suave Defense. While the swashbuckler is wearing light orno armor and wielding no shield, its AC includes its Cha-risma modifier.ACTIONSMultiattack. The swashbuckler makes one Dagger attack andt wo Rapier attacks.Dagger. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft. orrange 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (ld4 + 4) piercing damage.Rapier. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.Hit: 8 (ld8 + 4) piercing damage.BONUS ACTIONSLightfooted. The swas hbuckler takes the Dash or Disen-gage action.238 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYSWASHBUCKLERSwashbucklers are charming ne'er-do-wells wholive by their own codes of honor. They crave noto-riety, often indulge in romantic trysts, and eke outlivings as pirates and corsairs, rarely staying in oneplace for too long.Many swashbucklers have a signature flourishwith which they embellish their actions to makethemselves more memorable. You can roll on theSwashbuckler Flourishes table or choose one ofthe options to find a suitably dramatic flourish for aswashbuckler.SWASHBUCKLER FLOURISHESd8 FlourishWinks and flashes a charming grin2 Bows theatrically3 Constantly flips their dagger4 Punctuates sentences with a boisterous "Ha-HA!"5 Sings catchy sea chanteys6 Dexterously manipulates a silver coin through theirfingers7 Hurls colorful insults8 Adds showy embellishments to rapier strokesSWORD WRAITHSWhen glory-obsessed warriors die in battle withouthonor, they might haunt the site as sword wraiths.SWORD WRAITH COMMANDERSword wraith commanders haunt battlefields, at-tacking anyone who questions their valor but look-ing kindly on those who sing their praises.SWORD WRAITH WARRIORSword wraith warriors are most often found onancient battlefields where soldiers were hemmed inand slaught e red without quarter.SWORD WRAITH COMMANDERMedium Und ead , Typically Lawful EvilArmor Class 18 (brea s tplate , shield)Hit Points 127 (15d8 + 60)Speed 30 ft.STR18 (+4)DEX14 (+2)Skills Pe rcepti o n +4CON18 (+4)INT11 (+0)WIS12 (+l)CHA14 (+2)Damage Resistances necrotic ; bludgeoning , piercing , andslashing from nonmagical attacksDamage Immunities poisonCondition Immunities exhaustion , frightened, poi s oned ,uncon s ciousSenses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 14Languages the languages it knew in lifeChallenge 8 (3,900 XP) Proficiency Bonus +3Turning Defiance. The commander and any other sword wraithswithin 30 feet of it have advantage on saving throws againsteffects that turn U ndead .Unusual Nature. The commander doesn't require air, food ,drink , or sleep.ACTIONSMultiattack. The commander makes two Longsword or Long-bow attacks .Longsword. Me lee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one tar-get. Hit: 8 (ld8 + 4) slashing damage, or 9 (ldl0 + 4) slashingdamage if used with two hands.Longbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit , range 150/600 ft .,one target. Hit: 6 (ld8 + 2) piercing damage .Call to Honor (1/Day). If the commander has taken damageduring this combat, it gives itself advantage on attack rolls untilthe end of its next turn, and ld4 + l sword wraith warriors ap-pear in unoccupied spaces within 30 feet of it. The warriors lastuntil the y drop to 0 hit points , and they take their turns imme-diately after the commander's turn on the same initiative count .BONUS ACTIONSMartial Fury. The commander makes one Longsword or Long-bow attack, which deals an ex tra 9 (2d8) necrotic damage on ahit , and attack roll s again st it have advantage until the start ofits next turn .SWORD WRAITH WARRIORMedium Und ead , Typically Lawful EvilArmor Class 16 (chain shirt , shield)Hit Points 45 (6d8 + 18)Speed 30 ft.STR18 (+4)DEX12 (+l)CON17 (+3)INT6 (-2)WIS9 (-1)CHA10 (+0)Damage Resistances necrotic; bludgeoning , piercing, andslashing from nonmagical attacksDamage Immunities poisonCondition Immunities exhaustion , frightened, poisoned,unconsciousSenses darkv ision 60 ft ., passive Perception 9Languages the languages it knew in lifeChallenge 3 (700 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Unusual Nature. The warrior doesn 't require air, food ,drink, or sleep .ACTIONSBattleaxe. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one tar -get. Hit: 8 (ld8 + 4) slashing damage, or 9 (ldl0 + 4) slashingdamage if used with two hands.Longbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, range 150/600 ft. ,one target . Hit : 5 (ld8 + l) piercing damage .BONUS ACTIONSMartial Fury . The warrior makes one Battleaxe o r Longbowattack, and attack rolls against it have advanta ge until the startof its next turn .CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 23 9I believe 1pite CAIi\ be All\ excelle111t wiotivAfor.81,tt 1,t111checkeJ. f1,try? ThAt YA.rely leA~I toA111ythi111~ wiore thA111 A bi~ wie\\ .TANARUKKMedium Fiend (Demon), Typically Chaotic EvilArmor Class 14 (natural armor)Hit Points 95 (l0d8 + 50)Speed 30 ft .STR18 (+4)DEX13 (+l)CON20 (+5)INT9 (-1)Skills Intimidation +2, Perception +2Damage Resistances fire , poisonWIS9 (-1)Senses dar kvision 60 ft ., passive Perception 12Languages Abyssal , Common , plu s any one languageCHA9 (-1)Challenge 5 (1,800 X P) Proficiency Bonus +3Magic Resistance. The tanarukk has advantage on savingthrows against spells and other magical effects.ACTIONSMultiattack. The tanarukk makes one Bite attack and oneGreatsword attack.TASHABite. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit , reach 5 ft., one target . Hit:8 (ld8 + 4) piercing damage .Greatsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., onetarget. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) slashing damage.BONUS ACTIONSAggressive. The tanarukk moves up to its speed toward an en-emy that it can see.REACTIONSUnbridled Fury. In response to being hit by a me lee attack, thetanarukk can make one Bite or Greatsword attack with advan-tage against the attacker .24,0 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYTANARUKKWhen demonic influence corrupts the leadershipof a people or an organization, the leaders mightembrace abyssal magic to make tanarukks, usingthese ferocious warriors to bolster their follow-ers' strength.The demon lord Baphomet (appears in this book)gladly shares the secret of creating tanarukkswith those who entreat him for power; the cult ofGruumsh has also mastered a ritual for this pur-pose, and bestows it on those deemed worthy. What-ever process is used corrupts the subject, transform-ing them into a vicious Fiend.Although tanarukks are valued as fearsome fight-ers, they are a threat to their allies off the battlefield.When not in combat, a tanarukk is destructive andvolatile and is usually kept imprisoned by its allies.If unrestrained, a free tanarukk embarks on a ram-page, attempting to take over by force. Most suchcoups fail but are costly nonetheless. If a tanarukkdoes seize the leadership of a group, reckless raid-ing or even war is the course they inevitably choose.TITIVILUSDispat e r, th e gloomy Lord of Dis , rules from his ironpalace, seeming to hide behind its labyrinthine cor-ridors, iron walls, diabolical traps , and monstrousservants. Knowing he has e n em ies on all s id es andfea ring he'll be displa ce d like Moloch , Geryon, andso many others, he almost never travels farther thanthe sprawling city that li es outside his pa lace.Dispater is correc t to fear, but the true threatcom es not from without. The lord 's great e rror wasa llowing hims elf to be seduced by Titivilus, whobeguiled his way into being the primary advisor inDispater's hous ehold.Although Titivilus is inferior in physi ca l strengtha nd power wh en co mp are d to other archdevils, hecompensates with cunning. A shrewd politician, heh as clawed his way up through the ranks to b ec om ethe second-most powerful dev il in Dis , entire ly bysaying the right thing at the right time to get whathe wanted. Charming a nd pl easa nt, he is a masterat negotiation , able to twist words so as to leave hisvi c tims confused a nd believing he's on their side.Through these s kills, Titivilus has ma nipulated ev-eryone along his path to power, either to win themover to his ca u se or to remove them as a thr ea t.Since gaining his pos ition , Titivilus ha s convincedDispat er that countl ess plots are being hatchedagainst him a nd that Asmodeus hims elf see ks toremove Dispat er from powe r. In response , Dispaterhas withdrawn to his pala ce a nd le ft day-to-day d e-ci sions to Titivilus, even authorizing him to answe rand n eg otiate bargains with mort a ls who attemptto summon Dispater. Titivilus now re pr esen ts hismaster and sp ea ks with his vo ic e, a turn of eventsthat le ads so me to whisp er that eith er Titivilus isDispat er in disguise or Titivilus h as removed thearchduke an d replaced him a ltogether.Titivilus recog nizes the pr eca riousn ess of his po-s ition. After a ll , Dispater's accept ance of his plansand his advice can last only so long before someother plotter steps in and reveals the truth . Forinsuranc e, Titivilus has begun recruiting outsidersto d ea l with problem dev il s, to ins ulate him aga instcriticism , a nd , above a ll , to cr ea te compli cat ions th athe ca n solve so as to rei nforce his value in the eyesof his ma ste r. Titivilus finds adve ntur ers we ll suitedto the t as ks he n eeds performed and r ecru its themdir ectly or throu gh inte rm edia ri es, expendin g themlater as his plans require.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 241Medium Fiend (Devil) , Lawful EvilArmor Class 20 (natural armor)Hit Points 150 (20d8 + 60)Speed 40 ft. , fly 60 ft .STR19 (+ 4)DEX22 (+6)CON17 (+3)INT24 (+7)WIS22 (+ 6)Saving Throws De x+ 11 , Con +8, Wis +11 , Cha+ 13Skills Deception +13 , Insight +11 , Intimidation +13 ,Persuasion + 13CHA26 (+8)Damage Resistances cold; bludgeoning, piercing, and slashingfrom nonmagical attacks that aren 't silve redDamage Immunities fire , poisonCondition Immunities charmed , exhaustion , frightened ,poisonedSenses darkvision 120 ft ., passive Perception 16Languages all , telepathy 120 ft .Challenge 16 (15 ,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +5Legendary Resistance (3/Day). lfTitivilus fails a saving throw,he can choose to succeed instead..Magic Resistance. Titivilus has advantage on saving throwsagainst spells and other magical effects.Regeneration. Titivi lus regains 10 hit points at the start of histurn. If he takes cold or radiant damage, this trait doesn 't func-tion at the start of his next tur.n. Titivilus dies only if he startshis turn with 0 hit points and doesn't regenerate.Ventriloquism. Whenever Titivilus speaks, he can choose apoint within 60 feet of him; his voice emanates from that point .ACTIONSMultiattack. Titivilus makes one Silver Sword attack, and heuses Frightful Word.Silver Sword. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft. , onetarget. Hit: 8 (ld8 + 4) force damage, or 9 (ldl0 + 4) forcedamage if used with two hands, plus 16 (3dl0) necrotic dam-age. If the target is a creature, its hit point maximum is reducedby an amount equal to half the necrotic damage taken .242 CHAPTER '2 I BESTIARY•Frightful Word. Titivilus targets one creature he can see within10 feet of him. The target must succeed on a DC 21 Wisdomsaving throw or become frightened of him for l minute. Whilefrightened in this way, the target must take the Dash action andmove away from Titivilus by the safest available route on eachof its turns, unless there is nowhere to move, in which case itneedn't take the Dash action. The target can repeat the savingthrow at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itselfon a success .Spellcasting. Titivilus casts one of the following spells, requir-ing no material components and using Charisma as the spell-casting ability (spell save DC 21):At wi ll: alter self, major image, nondetection, sending, suggestion3/day each: mislead, modify memoryTeleport. Titivilus teleports, along with any equipment he iswearing or carrying, up to 120 feet to an unoccupied spacehe can see .Twisting Words. Titivilus targets one creature he can see within60 feet of him . The target must succeed on a DC 21 Charismasaving throw or become charmed by Titivilus for l minute. Thecharmed target can repeat the saving throw ifTitivilus dealsany damage to it. A creature that succeeds on the saving throwis immune to Titivilus 's Twisting Words for 24 hours.LEGENDARY ACTIONSTitivilus can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the op-tions below. Only one legendary action option can be used ata time and only at the end of another creature's turn . Titivilusregains spent legendary actions at the start of his turn.Corrupting Guidance. Titivilus uses Twisting Words. Alterna-tively, he targets one creature charmed by him that is within60 feet of him; that charmed target must succeed on a DC21 Charisma saving throw, or Titivilus decides how the targetacts during its next turn.Teleport. Titivilus uses Teleport.Assault (Costs 2 Actions). Titivilus makes one Silver Sword at-tack, or he uses Frightful Word.TLINCALLITlincallis, also called scorpionfolk, are chitin-covered creatureswith a humanlike upper body andthe lower body of an enormous scorpion,comp lete with a stinger at the end of a longtail. These desert creatures range acrossarid lands , hunting at dawn and dusk. In thehours between, they wait out the day's heat orthe night's cold by burying themselves in loosesand or earth or, if the terrain proves too inflexi-ble, lurking in ruins or shallow caves.Tlincallis stay in one place for only as long as thehunting is good in the immediate area, though theymight visit the same way stations over and overduring their wanderings. They also settle down tem-porarily whenever it's time to lay eggs and hatch anew brood of young.These scorpion folk deposit their eggs in warmplaces out of direct sunlight, often amid a stand ofcacti near their present encampment. The eggs areprotected by hard shells coated in paralytic poisonsimilar to that produced by their stingers. Thispoison leaves most would-be predators that dare tobreak an egg defenseless when the tlincalli parentscome to investigate.Tlincallis eat what they kill, whether their huntnets desert animals or a caravan, but when theyhave new mouths to feed, they are careful to takesome of their prey alive. After using their stingersto paralyze victims and their spiked chains to bindthem, tlincallis take these captives back to their en-campment and tie them to cact i or rock formations.When the ·sun sets, the newly hatched young emergefrom the lair to eat the captives alive.These predators see themselves as great hunters,and respect others with such skills. If a tlincalliencou nters a more powerful hunter, such as a bluedragon, they carefully weigh whether to serve thesuper ior hunter, move on, or fight to the death to re -move it as competition.Tlincallis rarely build cities, make clothing, ormine metals. Instead, they scavenge much of whatthey need or want. They do, however, melt downscavenged metal to forge crude weapons, armor,and tools.'TLINCALLILarge Monstrosity , Typically NeutralArmor Class 15 (natural armor)Hit Points 85 (l 0dl 0 + 30)Speed 40 ft.STR16 (+3)DEXl3 (+l)CON16 (+3)INT8 (- 1)WIS12 (+l)Skills Perception +4, Stealth +4, Survival +4Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 14Languages TlincalliCHA8 (-1)Challenge 5 (1,800 XP) Proficiency Bonus +3ACTIONSMultiattack. The tlincalli makes one Longs word or SpikedChain attack and one Sting attack.Longsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft. , one tar-get. Hit: 7 (ld8 + 3) slashing damage, or 8 (ldl0 + 3) slashingdamage if used with two hand s.Spiked Chain. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 10 ft., onetarget. Hit: 6 (l d6 + 3) piercing damage, and the target is grap -pled (escape DC ll) if it is a Large or smal ler creature. Untilthis grapple ends, the target is restrained , and the tlincalli can'tuse the spiked chain against another target.Sting. Melee Weapon Atta ck: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature.Hit: 6 (ld6 + 3) piercing damage plus 14 (4d6) poison damage ,and the target must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution savingthrow or be poisoned for l minute. If it fails the saving throw by5 or more, the target is also paralyzed wh il e poisoned. The tar-get can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns ,ending the effect on itself on a success.ICHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 243TORTLESTortles are omnivorous, turtle-like bipeds withshells that cover most of their bodies. Because theycarry their homes on their backs, tortles feel littleneed to stay put for long.Most tortles like to see how other folk live. A tortleca n spend decades away from their native land with-out feeling homesick, often viewing their currentcompanions as their family.TORTLEThe generic tortle stat block here represents a war-rior, especially the sort who travels far and wide.TORTLE DRUIDMany tortles view the world as a place of wonder.They live for the chance to hear a soft wind blowingthrough trees, to watch a frog croaking on a lily pad ,or to stand in a crowded marketplace. A tortle druidsavors such things more than most, channeling thenatural magic of the world around them.TORTLEMedium Humanoid, Any AlignmentArmor Class 17 (natural)Hit Points 22 (4d8 + 4)Speed 30 ft.STR15 (+ 2)DEX10 (+O)CON12 (+l)Skills Athletics +4, Survival +3Senses passive Perception 11Languages Aquan , CommonINT11 (+O)WIS13 (+l)CHA12 (+l)Challenge 1/4 (SO XP) . Proficiency Bonus +2Hold Breath. The tor tl e can hold its breath for l hour.ACTIONSClaw. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.Hit: 4 ( ld 4 + 2) slashit1g damage.Spear. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft. orrange 20/60 ft ., one target. Hit : 5 (ld6 + 2) piercing damage, or6 (ld8 + 2) piercing damage if used with two hands in me lee .Light Crossbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +2 to hit , range 80/320ft., one target. Hit: 4 ( ld 8) piercing damage.Shell Defense. The tortle withdraws into its shell. Until itemerges, it gains a +4 bonus to AC and has advantage onStrength and Constitution saving throws . Whi le in its shel l, thetort le is prone, its speed is 0 and can't increase, it has disad-vantage on De xterity saving throws, it can't take reactions, andthe only action it can take is a bonus action to emerge.244- CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYTORTLE DRUIDMedium Humanoid, Any AlignmentArmor Class 17 (natural)Hit Points 33 (6d8 + 6)Speed 30 ft.STR14 (+2)DEX10 (+0)CON12 (+l)INT11 (+O)WIS15 (+2)Skills Animal Handling +4, Nature +2 , Survival +4Senses passive Perception 12Languages Aquan, CommonCHA12 (+l)Challenge 2 (450 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Hold Breath. The tortle can hold its breath for l hour.ACTIONSMultiattack. Th e tortle makes four Claw attacks or two Na-ture 's Wrath attacks.Claw. Mele e Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft. , one target.Hit: 4 (ld4 + 2) slashing damage.Nature 's Wrath. Ranged Spell Attack: +4 to hit, range 90 ft., onetarget. Hit : 9 (2d6 + 2) damage of a type chosen by the tortle:cold, fire, lightning, or thunder.Shell Defense. Th e tortle withdraws into its she ll . Until iteme rg es, it gains a +4 bonus to AC and has advantage onStrength a nd Constitution saving throws. While in its shell, thetortle is prone, its speed is 0 and can't increase , it has disad-vantage on Dexterity saving throws , it can't take reactions, andthe only action it can take is a bonus action to emerge.Spellcasting. The tortle casts one of the fo llowing spells, usingWisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 12):At wi ll : druidcraft, guidance2/day each : cure wounds, hold person, sp eak with animals,thunderwaveTRAPPERLarge Monstrosity, UnalignedArmor Class 13 (natural armor)Hit Points 68 (8dl0 + 24)Speed 20 ft ., climb 20 ft .STR17 (+3)DEX10 (+0)Skills Stealth +2CON17 (+3)INT2 (-4)WIS13 (+l)CHA4 (-3)Senses blindsight 30 ft ., darkvision 60 ft ., passive Perception 11Languages -Challenge 3 (700 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Fals e Appearan ce. If the trapper is motionless on a floor, wa ll,or ce iling at the start of combat, it has advantage on its in itia -TRAPPERA trapper is a manta-like creature that usually lurksin subterranean environments. It can change thecolor and texture of its tough, outward-facing side tohelp it blend in with its surroundings, while its soft,inward-facing side clings to the floor, wall, or ceilingin its hunting territory. It re mains motionless as itwaits for prey to come close. When a target is withinits reach , it peels itself away from the surface andwraps around its prey, crushing, smothering, andthen dig es ting it. Only a scattering of bones, metal ,treasur e, and other indigestible bits is left behind.A trapp e r's ability to alter the color and texture ofits outer side enables it to blend in with any surfa cemad e of stone, ear th, or wood, masking its presenceto any but the most rigorous scrutiny. It can't c hang eits texture to that of a grassy or snow-covered sur-face, but it is just cunning e nough to cha nge its colorto mat ch and then conc ea l itself under a thin layer ofvegetation or actual snow.A trapp er that lurks on the fl oor of its huntinggrounds ca n cover any re mains th ere with its body,making them look like irregularities in the surface.Th e creature might instead attach itself to a n ea rbywall or a ceiling, using th e remnants as bait; anycreature that stops to inv est igate the bones for valu-ab les becomes the trapper's next meal.A trapp er needs to eat a halfling-siz ed meal onceper week to remain sated. Given a steady supply offood, trapp e rs are content to stay in one place, mak-ing them a threat along well-traveled dungeon corri-dor and on routes through the wilderness that see alot of traffic. When prey is scarce, a trapper enters astate of hibernation that can last for months , thoughit is still aware when prey comes near. A trapper onthe verge of starvation might defy its instincts andabandon its old territory in search of better hunting.ti ve ro ll. Moreover, if a creature hasn't observed the trappermove or act, that creature must succeed on a DC 18 Inte lli-gence (Investigation) check to discern that the trapper isn 'tpa rt of the floor, wa ll , or ceiling.Sp ide r Clim b. The trapper ca n climb difficult su rfaces, inclu d-ing up si de d ow n o n ce ilin gs, without needi ng to make anability check.ACTIONSSmother. One Large or sma ller creature within 10 fee t of thetrapper must succeed on a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw orbe grappled (escape DC 13) . Unt il the grapple ends , the targettakes 13 (3d6 + 3) bludgeoning damage plus 3 (ld6) acid dam-age at the start of each of its turns . While grappled in th is wa y,the target is restrained, blinded, and depr ived of air. The trap-per can smother only one creatu re at a time .ICHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 24$TROLLSTrolls that are nearly obliterated but survive andregenerate from mere scraps of flesh can display bi-zarre features. Radically transformed trolls like therot trolls, spirit trolls, and venom trolls that followare especially likely to arise when trolls regener-ate in the presence of magical emanations, planarenergy, disease, or death on a vast scale, or if theirbodies were damaged by elemental forces. Theseunusual forms can also be produced and shaped bythe ritual magic of evil spellcasters or by trolls' ownpractices, as is the case for dire trolls.DIRE TROLLHuge Giant, Typically Chaotic E~ilArmor Class 15 (natural armor)Hit Points 172 (l5dl2 + 75)Speed 40 ft.STR22 (+6)DEX15 (+2)CON21 (+5)Saving Throws Wis +5 , Cha +2Skills Perception +10INT9 (-1)WIS11 (+0)CHA5 (-3)Damage Resistances bludgeoning, piercing, and s lashing fromnonmagical attacksCondition Immunities frightened, poisonedSenses darkvision 60 ft ., passive Perception 20Languages GiantChallenge 13 (10,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +5Regeneration. The troll regain·s 10 hit points at the start of itsturn. If the troll takes acid or fire damage, it regains only 5 hitpoints at the start of its next turn. The troll dies only if it is hitby an attack that deals 10 or more acid or fire damage while thetroll has 0 hit points .ACTIONSMultiattack. The troll makes one Bite attack and fourClaw attacks.Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +ll to hit, reach 10 ft., onetarget. Hit: 10 (ld8 + 6) piercing damage plus 5 (ldl0) poi-son damage.Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +ll to hit, reach 10 ft ., one target.Hit: 16 (3d6 + 6) slashing damage.Whirlwind of Claws (Recharge 5-6). Each creature within 10feet of the troll must make a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw, tak-ing 44 (8dl0) slashing damage on a failed save , or half as muchdamage on a successful one.246 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYVAPRAK THE DESTROYERAlthough trolls are rarely devout and seldom pon-der spiritual questions, some fear and venerate theentity known as Vaprak the Destroyer. Vaprak'strue nature is something of a mystery, but Vaprak isalways portrayed as a horrid, misshapen, greenishcreature strongly resembling a troll. Vaprak is givento fits of mindless destruction and uncontrollablyfears the plots and ambitions of other deities.Vaprak's troll worshipers believe this god devoursthe souls of those who have been cooked or digested(slain by fire or acid). Otherwise, the god spits thesoul back into the world to regenerate a new body.DIRE TROLLTrolls kill and eat almost anything - including, inrare cases, other trolls. This cannibalism has theeffect of causing a troll to grow to an unusually largesize. The resulting dire trolls crave more and moretroll flesh to fuel their continued growth.Dire trolls also increase their size by graftingflesh onto themselves. When a slab of quivering trollflesh is bound against a fresh wound on a dire troll,the dire troll's regenerative capacity incorporatesthe new mass into the troll's own musculature. Evenmore horrifying are the multiple arms, eyes, claws,and organs that dire trolls tear from their victimsand graft onto themselves in this manner.RoTTROLLLarge Giant , Typi ca lly Chaotic EvilArmor Class 16 (natural armor)Hit Points 138 (12dl0 + 72)Speed 30 ft.STR18 (+4)DEX13 (+l)Skills Percept ion +3CON22 (+6)Damage Immunities necrot icINT5 (-3)WIS8 (-1)Senses darkv ision 60 ft. , pass iv e Per cept ion 13Languages GiantCHA4 (-3)Challenge 9 (5,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +4Rancid Degeneration. At the end of each of the troll's turns,each creature within 5 feet ofit takes 11 (2dl0) necrotic dam-age, unless the troll has taken acid or fire damage since the endof its la st turn.ACTIONSMultiattack_ The troll makes one Bite attack and twoClaw attacks.Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft. , one tar-get. Hit: 9 (ldl0 + 4) piercing damage plus 16 (3dl0) ne-crotic damage.Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit , reach 5 ft ., onetarget. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) slashing damage plus 7 (2d6) ne-crotic damage.RoTTRoLLA troll infused with waves of necrotic energy as itregenerates can develop a symbiotic relationshipwith that deathly power. The troll's body withers,and the flesh falls away from the body as quickly asit forms. Eventually a rot troll becomes unable toregenerate, though the troll still heals normally. Thecreature courses with necrotic energy; simply stand-ing near a rot troll exposes other creatures to lethalemanations.SPIRIT TROLLA troll blasted with psychic energy can take a non-physical form upon regenerating. The troll's psychesurvives, but the body is as insubstantial as shadow.The troll might be unawar e of the transition-thecreature still moves and attacks with teeth andclaws as ever- but now the troll strikes at vic-tims' minds.SPIRIT TROLLLarge Giant , Typically Chaotic EvilArmor Class 17 (natural armor)Hit Points 130 (20dl0 + 20)Speed 30 ft.STR1 (-5)DEX17 (+3)Skills Perception +3CON13 (+ l)INT8 (-1)WIS9 (-1)CHA16 (+3)Damage Resistances acid , cold, fire; bludgeoning, piercing, andslashing from nonmagical attacksCondition Immunities exhaustion , grappled , paral yzed ,petrified, prone , restrained , unconsciousSenses darkvision 60 ft. , passive Perception 13Languages GiantChallenge 11 (7,200 XP) Proficiency Bonus +4Incorporeal Movement. The troll can move through othercreatures and objects as if they were difficult terrain . It takes 5(ldl0) force damage ifit ends its turn inside an object.Regeneration. The troll regains 10 hit points at the start of itsturn. If the troll takes psychic or force damage , this trait doesn'tfunction at the start of the troll's next turn. The troll dies only ifit s tart s its turn with 0 hit points and doesn't regenerate.ACTIONSMultiattack. Th e troll makes one Bite attack and twoClaw attacks.Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature .Hit: 19 (3dl0 + 3) psychic damage, and the target must suc-ceed on a DC 15 Wisdom sav in g throw or be stunned for 1 min -ute. The stunned target can repeat the saving throw at the endof each of it s turns, ending the effect on itself on a success .Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft. , one creature .Hit: 19 (3dl0 + 3) psychic damage .ICHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 247VENOM TROLLLarge Giant, Typically Chaotic EvilArmor Class 15 (natural armor)Hit Points 94 (9dl0 + 45)Speed 30 ft .STR18 (+4)DEX13 (+l)Skills Perception +5CON20 (+5)Damage Immunities poisonCondition Immunities poisonedINT7 (-2)WIS9 (-1)Senses darkvision 60 ft ., pass ive Perception 15Languages GiantCHA7 (-2)Challenge 7 (2 ,900 XP) Proficiency Bonus +3Poison Splash. When the troll takes damage of any type butpsychic, each creature within 5 feet of the troll takes 9 (2d8)poison damage.Regeneration. The troll regains 10 hit points at the start of itsturn. If the troll takes acid or fire damage , this trait doesn 'tfunction at the start of the troll 's next turn . The troll dies only ifit starts its turn with O hit points and doesn 't regenerate.248 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYVENOM TROLLA troll that survives massive doses of poison mighttransform into a venom troll. Lingering poison in-fuses the troll's blood and tissue, and poison leaksfrom the pores to coat the troll's fangs and claws.These creatures are especially dangerous in closecombat because poison drips off their flesh andsprays out from every wound they receive.ACTIONSMultiattack. The troll makes one Bite attack and twoClaw attacks.Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit , reach 5 ft ., one creature .Hit: 7 (ld6 + 4) piercing damage plus 4 (ld8) poison damage ,and the target is poisoned until the start of the troll's next turn.Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft ., one target.Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) slashing damage plus 4 (ld8) poison damage.Venom Spray (Recharge 6). The troll slices itself with a claw,releasing a spray of poison in a 15-foot cube. The troll takes7 (2d6) slashing damage, which can't be reduced in any way.Each creature in the area must make a DC 16 Constitutionsaving throw. On a failed save , a creature takes 18 (4d8) poisondamage and is poisoned for l minute. On a successful save,the creature takes half as much damage and isn't poisoned.A poisoned creature can repeat the saving throw at the end ofeach of its turns , ending the effect on itself on a success.Very rarely, when a tadpole from the brine pool of anelder brain (appears in this book) is implanted into acreature, that creature transforms into an ulitharid:a larg er and mor e potent mind flayer with six tenta-cles. Illithids innately recognize that an ulitharid'ssurvival is more important than their own. An elderbrain's reaction to the rise of an ulitharid varies.In most colonies, the ulitharid becomes an elderbrain's most favored servant, invested with powerand authority. In oth ers, the elder brain perceivesan ulitharid as a potential rival and ma nipulates orquashes the ulitharid 's ambitions accordingly.When an ulitharid finds sharing leadership withan elder brain insufferable, it breaks off from thecolony, taking a group of mind flayers with it, andmoves to another location to form a new colony.N t er_ the death of th e ulitharid's body, a special pro-cess transforms its brain into a new elder brain forthe colony.This process doesn 't work on the brain of an uli-tharid that dies a natural death, as such brains aretoo decrepit to be used. Instead, each ulitharid car-ries a psionically enhanced staff; when the ulitharidis ready to give up its life, it attaches the staff to theback of its head, and th e staff cracks open its skull,enabling its brain to be e xtra cted. Th e brain and thest a ff ar e th en planted in the ulitha rid's c orps e, caus-ing it to dis solve into ic hor . This psionically potentslime helps to fu el th e transformation of the a r eainto a brin e pool for th e embryonic elder brain.ULITHARIDLarge Aberration (Mind Flayer), Typically Lawful EvilArmor Class 15 (breastplate)Hit Points 127 (17dl0 + 34)Speed 30 ft.STR15 (+2)DEX12 (+l)CON15 (+2)INT21 (+5)Saving Throws Int +9, Wis +8, Cha +9WIS19 (+4)Skills Arcana +9, Insight +8, Perception +8, Stealth +5Senses darkvision 120 ft ., passive Perception 18CHA21 (+5)Languages Deep Speech, Undercommon, telepathy 2 milesChallenge 9 (5 ,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +4Creature Sense. The ulitharid is aware of the presence of crea-tures within 2 miles ofit that have an Intelligence score of 4 orhigher. It knows the distance and direction to each creature,as well as each creature's Intelligence score, but can't senseanything else about it. A creature protected by a mind blankspell, a nondetection spell, or similar magic can't be perceivedin this manner.Magic Resistance. The ulitharid has advantage on savingthrows against spells and other magical effects.Psionic Hub. If an elder brain establishes a psychic link with theulitharid, the elder brain can form a psychic link with any othercreature the ulitharid can detect using it s Creature Sense. Anysuch link ends if the creature falls outside the telepathy rangesof both the ulitharid and the elder brain. The ulitharid canmaintain its psychic link with the elder brain regardless of thedistance between them, so long as they are both on the sameplane of existence. If the ulitharid is more than 5 miles awayfrom the elder brain, it can end the psychic link at any time (noaction required) .ACTIONSTentacles. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., onecreature. Hit : 27 (4dl 0 + 5) psychic damage. If the target isLar ge or smaller, it is grappled (escape DC 14) and must suc-ceed on a DC 17 Intelligence saving throw or be stunned untilthis grapple ends.Extract Brain. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., oneincapacitated Humanoid grappled by the ulitharid. Hit: 55(l0dl0) piercing damage. If this damage reduces the target to0 hit points, the ulitharid kills the target by extracting and de-vouring its brain.Mind Blast (Recharge 5-6). The ulitharid mag ic a ll y emits psy-chic energy in a 60-foot cone. Each creature in that area mustsucceed on a DC 17 Intelligence saving throw or take 31 (4dl2+ 5) psychic damage and be stunned for 1 minute. A target canrepeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, endingthe effect on itself on a success.Spellcasting (Psionics). Th e ulitharid casts one of the followingspells , requiring no spe ll components and using In te lli gence asthe spel lcasting abi li ty (spell save DC 17):At wi ll : detect thoughts, levitate1/day each: dGminate monster,feeblemind, mass suggestion,plane shift (self only), project image, scrying, telekinesisICHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 249VAMPIRIC MISTIn billowing clouds of fog lurk vampiric mists, thewretched remnants of vampires that were preventedfrom finding rest. Indistinguishable from the miststhey lurk within , they strike unseen and undetectedto bleed their victims dry.Vampiric mists, sometimes called crimson mists,are all that remain of vampires who couldn't returnto their burial places after being defeated or suf-fering some mishap. Denied the restorative powerof these places, the vampires' bodies dissolve intomist. The transformation strips the intelligence andpersonality from them until only an unholy, insatia-ble thirst for blood remains.Indistinguishable from fog aside from the charnelreek it exudes, a vampiric mist descends on a crea-ture and causes the blood in the creature's bodyto ooze through its pores or spill out from its eyes,nose , and mouth. This blood wafts out from thevictim like crimson smoke, which the mist then con-sumes. The feeding causes no pain or discomfort tothe victim, so vampiric mists can feed on sleeperswithout waking them. The more a mist feeds , theredder it gets, such that it turns pink, then red , andfinally a deep scarlet hue; when sated, it rains blooddroplets wherever it goes.Like sharks in water, vampiric mists can scentblood from up to a mile away. Any injury, no matterhow small, might catch their attention and drawthem toward their victims. In battle, a mist focusesits attacks on injured targets, since open woundsare a more ready source of blood.VAMPIRIC MISTMedium Undead, Typically Chaotic E~ilJrmor Class 13Hit Points 30 (4d8 + 12)Speed Oft. , fly 30 ft . (hover)STR6 (-2)DEX16 (+ 3)Saving Throws Wis +3CON16 (+ 3)INT6 (-2)WIS12 (+l)CHA7 (-2)Damage Resistances ac id, cold , lightn ing, necrotic, thunder ;bludgeoning, pier ci ng, and slash ing from nonm agica l attac ksDamage Immunities poisonCondition Immunities charmed , exhaustion , grapp led ,paralyzed , petrified , poisoned , prone, restrainedSenses dar kvis ion 60 ft., passive Perception 11Languages-Challenge 3 (700 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Life Sense. Th e mist can sense the location of any creaturewithin 60 feet of it, unless that creature's type is Constructor Undead.250 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYForbiddance . The mist can 't enter a residence without an invi-tation from one of the occupants.Misty Form . The mist can occupy another creature's space andvice versa . In add iti on, if air can pass through a space, the mistcan pass t hrou gh it without squeezing. Ea ch foot of movementin water costs it 2 extra feet , rather than l extra foot. The mistcan't manipulate objects in any way that requires fingers ormanual dexterity.Sunlight Hypersensitivity. The mist takes 10 radiant damagewhenever it starts its turn in sun light. While in sunl ight, themist has disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks .Unusual Nature. The mist doesn't require air or s le ep.ACTIONSLife Drain . Th e mist touches one creature in its space. Th etarget must succeed on a DC 13 Constitution saving throw(Undead and Constructs automat ic a ll y succeed), or it takes 10(2d6 + 3) necrotic damage, the mist regains 10 hit points , andthe target's hit point maximum is reduced by an amount equalto the necrotic damage taken. This reduction la sts until the tar-get finishes a long rest. Th e target dies if its hit point maximumis reduced to 0.VARGOUILLEShrieking, flapping, and hid-eous to behold-with a bodylike a severed head and wingsin place of ears-vargouillesboil out of the Abyss to infest other planes of exis-tence, such as Carceri, where they are a menace.Each vargouille carries a disease that creates moreof its kind; a flock of vargouilles on the wing is aplague of chaos and evil.Swarms of vargouilles flap through the cavernsand skies of the Abyss. They are given little regardby powerful and intelligent demons since vargouillescan do them no harm. Even the weakest demon,such as a manes or a dretch , fears vargouilles only ifthey appear in great numbers. In the Lower Planes,vargouilles rarely get the chance to eat live preyother than vermin. More often, they lap up the ichorleft behind when one Fiend kills another .Because of their hunger for living prey, vargouillesare eager to escape the Lower Planes. On rare oc-casions, summoning a demon to another plane canbring a vargouille along for the ride, attached likea tick. The precautions a mortal takes to control asummoned demon rarely account for a stowaway,enabling the vargouille to escape into the world.Vargouilles that roam free on the Material Planeare a dire threat to all creatures. Their awfulshrieking can paralyze other creatures with fear,which also makes the creatures susceptible to thevargouille's curse. If the curse is allowed to run itscourse, an abyssal spirit invades the person's body,causing a gruesome transformation. Over a periodof hours, the victim's head takes on fiendish aspects,such as fangs, tentacles, and horns. At the sametime, the person's ears grow larger, expanding intowing-like appendages. In the final moments, thevictim's head tears away from the body in a fountainof blood, becoming another vargouille, which oftenthen eagerly laps up the blood spilling from its for-mer body. Sunlight or the brilliant illumination of adaylight sp e ll can delay this transformation; other-wise, only magic can overcome the curse.VARGOUILLETiny Fi end, Typically Chaotic EvilArmor Class 12Hit Points 18 (4d4 + 8)Speed 5 ft ., fly 40 ft .STR6 (-2)DEX14 (+2)CON14 (+2)INT4 (-3)Damage Resistances cold, fire, lightningDamage Immunities poisonCondition Immunities poisonedWIS7 (-2)Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 8CHA2 (-4)Languages understands Abyssal , Infernal , and any languages itknew before becoming a vargouille but can 't speakChallenge 1 (200 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2ACTIONSBite. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft ., one target.Hit: 5 (ld6 + 2) piercing damage plus 10 (3d6) poison damage.Abyssal Curse. The vargoui lle targets one incapacitated Hu-manoid within 5 feet ofit. The target must succeed on a DC 12Charisma saving throw or become cursed. Th e cursed targetlo ses 1 point of Charisma after each hour, as its head takes onfiendish aspects. The curse doesn't advance while the target isin sun li ght or the area of a daylight spell ; don 't count that time.When the cursed target's Charisma becomes 2, it dies , and itshead tears from its body and becomes a new vargouille . Cast-ing remove curse, greater restoration, or a similar spell on thetarget before the transformation is complete can end the curse.Doing so undoes the changes made to the target by the curse.Stunning Shriek (Recharge 5-6). The vargoui lle shrieks . Ea chHumano id and Beast within 30 feet of the vargouille and ableto hear it must succeed on a DC 12 Wisdom saving throw orbe frightened of the vargouil le until the end of the vargouille'snext turn. Whi le frightened in this way, a target is stunned . Ifa target's saving throw is successful or the effect end s for it ,the target is immune to the Stunning Shriek of a ll vargoui ll esfor 1 hour.ICHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 251VEGEPYGMIESVegepygmies ar e fungus creatures that live in sim-ple bands, hunting for sustenance and spreading thespores by which they reproduce . Also called moldfolk or moldies, vegepygmies inhabit dark, moist ar-eas, so they're most commonly found undergroundor in forests where little sunlight penetrates. A vege-pygmy feels kinship with other plant and funguscreatures, and thus vegepygmy bands coexist wellwith creatures such as myconid adults, shriekers,and violet fungi (all appear in the Monster Manual).Although they prefer to eat fresh meat, bone, andblood, vegepygmies can absorb nutrients from soiland many sorts of organic matter, so they rarelygo hungry. A vegepygmy can hiss and make othernoises by forcing air through its mouth, but it can'tspeak in a conventional sense. Among themselves,vegepygmies communicate by hissing, gestures, andtapping. Vegepygmies build and craft little; any gearthey have is acquired from other creatures or builtby copying simple construction they have witnessed.VEGEPYGMYTypical vegepygmies originate from the remainsleft behind when a Humanoid or a Giant is killed byrusset mold (see "Russet Mold" below). One or morevegepygmies emerge from the corpse a day later.VEGEPYGMY CHIEFAs a vegepygmy ages, it grows tougher and developsspore clusters on its body. Other vegepygmies deferto th e se so-called chiefs. A chief can expel its sporesin a burst , infecting nearby creatures. If a creaturedies while infected, its corpse produces vegepyg-mies the same way russet mold does .THORNY VEGEPYGMYIf-a Beast such as a dog or a bear dies from russetmdld, the result is a bestial moldy called a thorny,instead of a bipedal vegepygmy. Thornies are less in-telligent than other vegepygmies, but they are largerand more ferocious and have thorn-covered bodies.RUSSET MOLDFew know for sure where russet mold came from.One historical account tells of adventurers in amountain range discovering russet mold and vege-pygmies in a peculiar metal dungeon full of strangelife. Another story says that explorers found russetmold in a crater left by a falling star, with vegepyg-mies infesting th e fore st nearby.Th e mold is found only in pla ces that ar e dark,wa rm, a nd wet. Ru sse t mold that s pr ea ds out acro ssa metal object ca n be mistaken for ru s t, and a su c-ces sful DC 15 Intelligence (Natur e) or Wisdom (Sur-viva l) ch ec k is re quir ed to identify it.252 C HAPTER 2 I BEST I A RYEFFECTS OF THE MOLDAny creature that comes within 5 feet of russet moldmust make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw asthe mold emits a puff of spores. On a failed save, thecreature is poisoned. While poisoned in this way,the creature takes 7 (2d6) poison damage at thestart of each of its turns. The creature can repeatthe saving throw at the end of each of its turns, end-ing the effect on itself on a success. Any magic thatneutralizes poison or cures disease kills the infesta-tion. A creature reduced to O hit points by the molddies. If the dead creature is a Beast, a Giant, or aHumanoid, one or more vegepygmies emerge fromits body 24 hours later: one from a Small corpse,two from a Medium corpse, four from a Largecorpse , eight from a Huge corpse, or sixteen from aGargantuan corpse.DE STROYING THE MOLDRusset mold can be hard to kill, since weapons andmost types of damage do it no harm. Effects thatdeal acid, necrotic, or radiant damage kill 1 squarefoot of russet mold per 1 damage dealt. A poundof salt, a gallon of alcohol, or magic that cures dis-ease kills russet mold in a square area that is 10feet on a side. Sunlight kills any russet mold in thelight's area.f ; ?#S=::n p.::::;..; ·c - -=== -VEGEPYGMYSmall Plant, Typically NeutralArmor Class 13 (natu ral armor)Hit Points 13 (3d6 + 3)Speed 30 ft.STR7 (- 2)DEX14 (+2 )CON13 (+l)Sk ills Perception +2, Stealth +4INT6 (-2)WIS11 (+O)Damage Resistances lightn ing, piercingSenses dar kv ision 60 ft ., pass iv e Pe rception 12Languages Veg e py gmyCHA7 (-2)Challenge 1/4 (50 X P) Proficiency Bonus +2Plant Camouflage. The vegepygmy has advantage on Dexterity(Stealth) checks it makes in any terrain with ample obscuringvegetation.Regeneration. The vegepygmy regains 3 hit points at the startof its turn. If it takes cold, fire, or necrotic damage, this traitdoesn't function at the start of the vegepygmy's next turn. Thevegepygmy dies only if it starts its turn with 0 hit points anddoesn't regenerate.ACTIONSClaw. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.Hit : 5 (ld6 + 2) slashing damage.Sling. Rang ed Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, range 30/120 ft. , onetarget. Hit : 4 (ld4 + 2) bludgeoning damage.VEGEPYGMY CHIEFSmall Plant, Typically NeutralArmor Class 14 (natural armor)Hit Points 33 (6d6 + 12)Speed 30 ft .STR14 (+2)DEX14 (+2)CON14 (+2)Skills Perception +3 , Stealth +4INT7 (-2)WIS12 (+l)Damage Resistances lightning, piercingSenses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 13Languages VegepygmyCHA9 (-1)Challenge 2 (450 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Plant Camouflage. The vegepygmy has advantage on Dexterity(Stealth) checks it makes in any terrain with ample obscuringvegetation.Regeneration. The vegepygmy regains 5 hit points at the startof its turn. If it takes cold, fire, or necrotic damage, this traitdoesn't function at the start ofthe vegepygmy's next turn. Thevegepygmy dies only if it starts its turn with 0 hit points and'doesn't regenerate.ACTIONSMultiattack. The vegepygmy makes two Claw attacks or twomelee Spear attacks.Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft. , one target.Hit: 5 (ld6 + 2) slashing damage.Spear. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft. orrange 20/60 ft. , one target. Hit: 5 (ld6 + 2) piercing damage, or6 (ld8 + 2) piercing damage if used with two hands to make amelee attack.Spores (1/Day). Al 5-foot-radius cloud of toxic spores extendsout from the vegepygmy. The spores spread around corners.Each creature in that area that isn't a Plant must succeed ona DC 12 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned. While poi-soned in this way, a target takes 9 (2d8) poison damage at thestart of each of its turns. A target can repeat the saving throwat the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself ona success.THORNY VEGEPYGMYMedium Plant, Typically NeutralArmor Class 14 (natural armor)Hit Points 27 (5d8 + 5)Speed 30 ft .STR13 (+l)DEX12 (+l)CON13 (+l)Skills Perception +4 , Stealth +3INT2 (-4)WIS10 (+O)Damage Resistances lightning, piercingSenses darkvision 60 ft. , passive Perception 14Languages -CHA6 (-2)Challenge 1 (200 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Plant Camouflage. The thorny has advantage on Dexterity(Stealth) checks it makes in any terrain with ample obscuringvegetation.Regeneration. The thorny regains 5 hit points at the start of itsturn. lfit takes cold, fire, or necrotic damage, this trait doesn 'tfunction at the start of the thorny's next turn. The thorny diesonly if it starts its turn with 0 hit points and doesn 't regenerate.Thorny Body. At the start of its turn , the thorny deals 2 (ld4)piercing damage to any creature grappling it .ACTIONSBite. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft. , one target.Hit: 10 (2d8 + l) piercing damage.CHAPTER 2 J BESTIARY 2$3II254WAR PRIESTMedium Humanoid (Cleric), Any AlignmentArmor Class 18 (plate)Hit Points 117 (l 8d8 + 36)Speed 30 ft.STR16 (+3)DEX10 (+0)CON14 (+2)INT11 (+0)WIS17 (+3)CHA13 (+l)Saving Throws Con +6 , Wis +7Skills Intimidation +5, Re ligion +4Senses passive Perception 13Languages any two languagesChallenge 9 (5,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +4ACTIONSMultiattack. The war priest makes two Maul attacks, and ituses Holy Fire.Maul. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft. , one target.Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) bludgeoning damage plus 10 (3d6) radi-ant damage.Holy Fire. The war priest targets one creature it can see within60 feet of it. The target must make a DC 15 Wisdom savingthrow. On a failed save, the target takes 12 (2d8 + 3) radiantdamage , and it is blinded until the start of the war priest's nextturn. On a successful save, the target takes half as much dam-age and isn't blinded.Spellcasting. The war priest casts one of the following spells,using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 15):At will: light, spare the dying, thaumaturgy1/day each: banishment, command, dispel magic,flame strike,guardian offaith, hold person, lesser restoration, revivifyBONUS ACTIONSHealing Light (Recharge 4-6). The war priest or one creature ofits choice within 60 feet ofit regains 12 (2d8 + 3) hit points.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYWAR PRIESTWar priests worship deities of war, protection , andstrategy. They plan tactics, lead soldiers into battle,confront enemy spellcasters, and tend to casualties.A war priest might command an army or serve asthe right hand of a warlord (appears in this book) onthe battlefield.War priests typically adorn themselves with asymbol of their faith. You can roll on the War PriestHoly Symbols table below, or choose one that fitsyour campaign.WAR PRIEST HOLY SYMBOLSd8 Holy Symbol2345678Vial of iridescent liquidHilt of a broken swordPiece of stained glass from a shrineClay figurine of a ki-rin or another CelestialTorch carved so that a hand appears to be holdingthe flameCirclet of woven reedsScrimshawed boneVessel such as a cup, a jug, an urn , or an amphoraWARLOCKSWarlocks gain arcane might through magical pactswith mysterious entities. While some use their abil-ities to serve the sources of their power, others usethem to undermine or even destroy these entities.WARLOCK OF THE ARCHFEYWarlocks of the Archfey gain their powers throughmagical pacts forged with lords of the Feywild.These warlocks commonly associate with lesser Feycreatures such as boggles, quicklings, and redcaps(all appear in this book) or even satyrs and sprites(both appear in the Monster Manual).WARLOCK OF THE ARCHFEYMedium Humanoid, Any AlignmentArmor Class 13 (16 with mage armor)Hit Points 67 (l 5d8)Speed 30 ft.STR9 (-1)DEX16 (+3)CON11 (+0)Saving Throws Wis +3, Cha +6INT11 (+0)WIS12 (+l)CHA18 (+4)Skills Arcana +2, Deception + 6, Nature +2, Persuasion +6Condition Immunities charmedSenses passive Perception 11Languages any two languages (usually Sylvan)Challenge 4 (1,100 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2ACTIONSMultiattack. The warlock makes two Rapier attacks , or it usesBewildering Word twice.Rapier. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target .Hit: 7 (ld8 + 3) piercing damag~ plus 7 (2d6) force damage .Bewildering Word. The warlock utters a magical bewilderment,targeting one creature it can see within 60 feet of it . The targetmust succeed on a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw or take 9 (2d8)psychic damage and have disadvantage on attack rolls until theend of the warlock's next turn.Spellcasting. The warlock cast s one of the following spells , us-ing Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 14) :At will : dancing lights, disguise self, mage armor (self only) , magehand, minor illusion, prestidigitation, speak with animals1/day each: charm person, dimension door, hold monsterREACTIONSMisty Escape (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). In re-sponse to taking damage, the warlock turns invisible and tele-ports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. It remains invisibleuntil the start of its next turn or until it attacks , makes a dam-age roll , or casts a spell.WARLOCK OF THE FIENDWarlocks of the Fiend gain their powers throughmagical pacts forged with archfiends of the LowerPlanes. These warlocks often keep imps or quasits(see the Monster Manual) as companions , and theytend toward philosophical extremes: consortingwith fiendish cults or dedicating their lives to de-stroying such cults.WARLOCK OF THE FIENDMedium Humanoid, Any AlignmentArmor Class 13 (16 with mage armor)Hit Points 78 (12d8 + 24)Speed 30 ft.STR10 (+0)DEX16 (+3)CON15 (+2)Saving Throws Wis +4, Cha +7INT12 (+l)WIS12 (+l)CHA18 (+4)Skills Arcana +4, Deception +7, Persuasion +7, Religion +4Damage Resistances fireSenses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 11Languages any two languages (usually Abyssal or Infernal)Challenge 7 (2 ,900 XP) Proficiency Bonus +3Dark One's Own Luck (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest).When the warlock makes an ability check or saving throw, it canadd a dl0 to the roll. It can do this after the roll is made butbefore any of the roll 's effects occur.ACTIONSMultiattack. The warlock makes three Scimitar attacks .Scimitar. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft ., onetarget. Hit: 6 (ld6 + 3) bludgeoning damage plus 14 (4d6)fire damage.Hellfire. Green flame explodes in a 10-foot-radius sphere cen-tered on a point within 120 feet of the warlock. Each creature inthat area must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 16(3dl0) fire damage and 11 (2dl0) necrotic damage on a failedsave, or half as much damage on a successful one.Spellcasting. The warlock casts one of the following spells , us-ing Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 15):At will: alter self, mage armor (self only) , mage hand, minor illu-sion, prestidigitation1/day each: banishment, plane shift, suggestionREACTIONSFiendish Rebuke (3/Day). In response to being damaged bya visible creature within 60 feet of it, the warlock forces thatcreature to make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, taking 22(4dl0) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much dam -age on a success ful one.CHAPTER 2 [ BESTIARY 255WARLOCK OF THE GREAT OLD ONEWarlocks of the Great Old One gain their powersthrough magical pacts forged with eldritch entitiesfrom strange and distant realms of existence. Someof these warlocks associate with cultists devotedWARLOCK OF THE GREAT OLD ONEMedium Humanoid, Any Alignm entArmor Class 13 (16 with mage armor)Hit Points 91 (14d8 + 28)Speed 30 ft.STR9 (-1)DEX16 (+ 3)CON15 (+2 )Saving Throws Wis +4, Cha +7Skills Arcana +4, History +4Damage Resistances psychicINT12 (+l)WIS12 (+l)Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 11Languages any t wo languages, telepathy 30 ft.CHA18 (+4)Challenge 6 (2 ,300 XP) Proficiency Bonus +3Whispering Aura. At the start of eac h of the war lock's turns,each creature of its choice within 10 feet ofit must succeed ona DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or take 10 (3d6) psychic dam-age, provided the warlock isn 't incapacitated.256 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYto these entities, as well as Aberrations that sharetheir goals, yet other warlocks of the Great Old Oneare experts at rooting out the chaos and wickednessinspired by bizarre beings from beyond the stars.ACTIONSMultiattack. The warlock makes two Dagger attacks .Dagger. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft.or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit : 5 (ld4 + 3) piercing damageplus 10 (3d6) psychic damage.Howling Void . The warlock opens a momentar y extraplanarrift within 60 feet of it . The rift is a scream-filled, 20-foot cube.Each creature in that area must make a DC 15 Wisdom savingthrow. On a failed save, a creature takes 9 (2d8) psychic dam-age and is frightened of the war lock until the start of the war-lock's next turn . On a successful save, a creature takes half asmuch damage and isn't frightened.Spellcasting. The warlock casts one of the following spells, us -ing Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 15) :At wil l: det ec t magic, guidance, levitate, mage armor (self only),mage hand, minor illusion , prestidigitation, speak with dead1/day each: arcane gate, detect thoughts, true seeingWARLORDWarlords are legendary battlefield commanders,whose names are spoken with awe. After a stringof decisive victories, a warlord could easily take onthe role of monarch or general and attract followerswilling to die for the warlord 's banner.Warlords urge their troops into the fray withshouted exhortations. You can roll on the WarlordBattle Cries table to select one, or choose a battlecry that fits with your campaign .WARLORD BATTLE CRIESd8 Battle Cry"Remember why we fig ht!"2 "Victory awaits!"3 "For the crown!"4 "Be monstrous to the enemy!"5678"Fight so they fear us!""Weapons drawn! Spells at the ready! ""To the Abyss with them!"You know what to do!"Medium Humanoid, Any AlignmentArmor Class 18 (plate)Hit Points 229 (27d8 + 108)Speed 30 ft.STR20 (+5)DEX16 (+3)CON18 (+4)INT12 (+l)Saving Throws Str +9, Dex +7, Con +8WIS12 (+l)Skills Athletics +9, Intimidation +8, Perception +5,Persuasion +8Senses passive Perception l 5Languages any two languagesCHA18 (+4)Challenge 12 (8 , 400 XP) Proficiency Bonus +4Indomitable (3/Day). The war lord can reroll a saving throw itfails . It must use the new roll.Survivor. T he warlord regains 10 hit points at the start of itsturn if it has fewer than half its hit points but at least l hit point.ACTIONSMultiattack. The warlord makes two Greatsword or Short -bow attacks.Greatsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft. , onetarget . Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) s lashing damage.Shortbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, range 80/320 ft.,one target. Hit: 6 (l d6 + 3) piercing damage.LEGENDARY ACTIONSThe warlord can take 3 legendary actions, choos i ng from theoptions below. Only one legendary action option can be usedat a time and on ly at the end of another, creature's turn. Thewarlord regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn.Command Ally. T he war lord targets one ally it can see within 30feet of it. If the target can see or hear the warlord, the targetcan make one weapon attack as a reaction and gains advan-tage on the attack roll.Weapon Attack. The warlord makes one Greatsword or Short-bow attack.Frighten Foe (Costs 2 Actions). The warlord target s one crea-ture it can see within 30 feet of it . If the tar g et can see or hearit, the target must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throwor be frightened of the war lord until the end of warlord'snext turn.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 257WASTRILITHFound in the waters of the Abyss and other bodiesof water contaminated by that plane's fell influence,wastriliths establish themselves as lords of the deepand rule their dominions with cruelty.A wastrilith pollutes the waters around it. Its nox-ious presence even affects nearby sources of waterwhen the demon travels on land. The corruptedwater, which contains a measure of the demon'sessence, responds to the wastrilith's commands~perhaps hardening to prevent foes from escaping orerupting in a surge that drags victims into its reach.Creatures that ingest water corrupted by a wast-rilith risk their very souls. Those who drink thepoisonous liquid might wither away until they finallydie, or they remain alive only to become thralls ofchaos and evil. To represent this defilement, you canuse the optional rule on abyssal corruption in chap-ter 2 of the Dungeon Master's Guide, causing thepoisoned creature to be corrupted.WASTRILITHLarge Fiend (Demon), Typically Chaotic EvilArmor Class 18 (natural armor)Hit Points 157 (15dl0 + 75)Speed 30 ft ., swim 80 ft .STR19 (+4)IDEX18 (+4)CON21 (+5)Saving Throws Str+9, Con +10INT19 (+4)WIS12 (+l)CHA14 (+2)Damage Resistances cold , fire , lightn ing; bludgeoning,piercing, and slashing from nonmagical attacksDamage Immunities poisonCondition Immunities poisonedSenses darkvision 120 ft ., passive Perception 11Languages Abyssal, telepathy 120 ft .Challenge 13 (10 , 000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +5Amphibious. The wastrilith can breathe air and water.Corrupt Water. At the start of each of the wastrilith's turns,exposed water within 30 feet of it is befouled. Underwater , thiseffect lightly obscures the area until a current clears it away.Water in containers remains corrupted until it evaporates.A creature that consumes this foul water or swims in it mustmake a DC 18 Constitution saving throw. On a successful save,the creature is immune to the foul water for 24 hours. On afailed save, the creature takes 14 (4d6) poison damage and ispoisoned for l minute. At the end of this time, the poisoned258 CHAPTER 2 I I)ESTIARYcreature must repeat the saving throw. On a failure, the crea-ture takes 18 (4d8) poison damage and is poisoned until itfinishes a long rest.If another demon drinks the foul water as an action, it gains11 (2dl0) temporary hit points.Magic Resistance. The wastrilith has advantage on savingthrows against spells and other magical effects.ACTIONSMultiattack. The wastrilith makes one Bite attack and two Clawattacks, and it uses Grasping Spout.Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 70 ft., one target.Hit: 30 (4dl2 + 4) piercing damage.Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target.Hit: 18 (4d6 + 4) slashing damage.Grasping Spout. The wastrilith magically launches a spout ofwater at one creature it can see within 60 feet ofit. The targetmust make a DC 17 Strength saving throw, and it has disad-vantage if it's underwater. On a failed save, it takes 22 (4d8 +4) acid damage and is pulled up to 60 feet toward the wastri-lith. On a successful save, it takes half as much damage andisn't pulled.BONUS ACTIONSUndertow. If the wastrilith is underwater, it causes all waterwithin 60 feet of it to be difficult terrain for other creatures untilthe start of its next turn.WIZARDSWizards pursue magical power through the studyof arcane texts. Some travel the world searching foresoteric tomes, while others train lesser wizards orcollaborate with colleagues to create new spells.APPRENTICE WIZARDApprentices are novice arcane spellcasters whoserve more experienced wizards or attend school.They perform menial work like cooking or cleaningin exchange for education in the ways of magic.ABJURER WIZARDAbjurers specialize in creating protective magicalwards. Monarchs, nobles, and other wealthy individ-uals commonly hire abjurers to provide protection.CONJURER WIZARDConjurers summon creatures from other planes ofexistence and teleport themselves and others in theblink of an eye.DIVINER WIZARDDiviners peer into the future and know that knowl-edge is power. They might act aloof and mysteri-ous, hinting at omens and secrets, or they mightbe know-it-alls, spilling insights to advance theirown status.ENCHANTER WIZARDEnchanters know how to magically influence minds.Benign enchanters use this magic to defuse violenceand sow peace, while malevolent enchanters aresome of the most evil of all spellcasters.EVOKER WIZARDEvokers harness arcane energy to destroy. Manyarmies employ evokers to rain destruction down onenemy forces.ILLUSIONIST WIZARDIllusionists twist light, sound, and even thought tocreate illusory effects. Some illusionists are delight-ful entertainers, while others are devilish tricksters.NECROMANCER WIZARDNecromancers study the interaction of life, death,and undeath. Some necromancers dig up or pur-chase corpses to create Undead servitors. A few in-stead use their powers for good, hunting Undead.TRANSMUTER WIZARDTransmuters are masters at transforming physicalforms. They typically view magical transmutation asa path to riches, enlightenment, or apotheosis.APPRENTICE WIZARDMedium Humanoid, Any AlignmentArmor Class 10 (13 with mage armo r)Hit Points 13 (3d8)Speed 30 ft .STR10 (+ O)DEX10 (+O)CON10 (+ O)Skills Arcana +4, History +4Senses passive Percept io n 10INT14 (+ 2)WIS10 (+ O)Languages a ny one language (u sually Commo n)CHA11 (+ O)Challenge 1/4 (SO XP) Proficiency Bonus +2ACTIONSArcane Burst. Melee or Ranged Spell Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft.or range 120 ft. , one target. Hit: 7 (ldlO + 2) force damage.Spellcasting. The apprentice casts one of the following spells,using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 12) :At wil l: mage hand, prestidigitation1/day each : burning hands , disguise self, mage armorCHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 259IIABJURER WIZARDMedium Humanoid, Any AlignmentArmor Class 12 (15 with mage armor)Hit Points 104 (l6d8 + 32)Speed 30 ft.STR9 (-1)DEX14 (+2)CON14 (+2)INT18 (+4)WIS12 (+l)CHA11 (+0)Saving Throws Int +8, Wis +5Skills Arcana +8 , History +8Senses passive Perception 11Languages any four languagesChallenge 9 (5,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +4ACTIONSMultiattack. The abjurer makes three A\cane Burst attacks.Arcane Burst. Melee or Ranged Spell Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft.or range 120 ft., one target. _Hit: 20 (3dl0 + 4) force damage.Force Blast. Each creature in a 20-foot cube originating fromthe abjurer must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw. Ona failed save, a creature takes 36 (8d8) force damage and ispushed up to 10 feet away from the abjurer. On a successfulsave, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't pushed.Spellcasting. The abjurer casts one of the following spells, us-ing Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 16):At will: dancing lights, mage hand, message, prestidigitation2/day each: dispel magic, lightning bolt, mage armor1/day each: arcane lock, banishment, globe of invulnerability, in-visibility , wall offorceREACTIONSArcane Ward (Recharge 4-6). When the abjurer or a creature itcan see within 30 feet of it takes damage, the abjurer magicallycreates a protective barrier around itself or the other creature.The barrier reduces the damage to the protected creature by 26(4dl0 + 4) , to a minimum of 0, and then vanishes.260 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYCONJURER WIZARDMedium Humanoid, Any AlignmentArmor Class 12 (15 with mage armor)Hit Points 58 (13d8)Speed 30 ft.STR9 (-1)DEX14 (+2)CON11 (+0)INT17 (+3)WIS12 (+l)CHA11 (+0)Saving Throws Int +6, Wis +4Skills Arcana +6 , History +6Senses passive Perception 11Languages any four languagesChallenge 6 (2,300 XP) Proficiency Bonus +3ACTIONSMultiattack. The conjurer makes three Arcane Burst attacks.Arcane Burst. Melee or Ranged Spell Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft.or range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 19 (3dl O + 3) force damage.Spellcasting. The conjurer casts one of the following spells, us-ing Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 14):At will: dancing lights, mage hand, prestidigitation2/day each: fireball, mage armor, unseen servant1/day each:fly, stinking cloud, webBONUS ACTIONSBenign Transportation (Recharge 4-6) . The conjurer teleports,along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 30 feetto an unoccupied space that it can see. If it instead chooses aspace within range that is occupied by a willing Small or Me-dium creature, they both teleport, swapping places.Summon Elemental (1/Day). The conjurer magically summonsan air elemental, an earth elemental, a fire elemental, or a waterelemental (all appear in the Monster Manual). The elementalappears in an unoccupied space within 60 feet of the conjurer,whom it obeys. It takes its turn immediately after the conjurer.It lasts for l hour, until it or the conjurer dies, or until the con-jurer dismisses it as a bonus action .Me dium Humanoid, Any AlignmentArmor Class 12 (15 with ma ge ar mor)Hit Points 90 (2 0d 8)Speed 30 ft.STR9 (-1)DEX14 (+2 )CON11 (+ 0)Saving Throws In t +7 , Wis +4Skills Arc a na +7, H is to ry +7Senses pa ssi ve Percept io n 11Languages any fou r la ng ua gesChallenge 8 (3, 900 XP)ACTIONSINT18 (+ 4)WIS12 (+l)CHA11 (+ 0)Proficiency Bonus +3Multiattack. The diviner makes three Arcane Burst attacks.Arcane Burst. Melee or Ranged Spell Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft.or range 120 ft. , one target. Hit: 20 (3dl0 + 4) radiant damage.Overwhelming Revelation (Recharge 5-6). The diviner magi-cally creates a burst of illumination in a 10-foot-radius spherecentered on a point within 120 feet ofit . Each creature in thatarea must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw. On a failedsave, a creature takes 45 (10d8) psychic damage and is stunneduntil the end of the diviner 's next turn . On a successful save,the creature takes half as much damage and isn 't stunned.Spellcasting. The diviner casts one of the following spells, us-ing Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 15) :At will: light, mage hand, message, prestidigitation2/day each: arcane eye, detect magic, detect thoughts,jly, light-ning bolt, locate object, mage armor, Rary 's telepathic bondl /day: true seeingREACTIONSPortent (3/Day) . When the diviner or a creature it can seemakes an attack roll, a saving throw, or an ability check, the di-viner rolls a d20 and chooses whether to use that roll in place ofthe d20 rolled for the attack roll, saving throw, or ability check.Medium Humanoid, Any AlignmentArmor Class 12 (15 with mage armor)Hit Points 49 (lld8)Speed 30 ft .STR9 (-1 )DEX14 (+2 )CON11 (+0)Saving Throws In t +6, Wi s +4Skills Ar can a +6, H is to ry +6Senses pas siv e Pe rc ept io n 11Languages an y fo ur langu agesChallenge 5 (1 ,800 XP)ACTIONSINT17 (+3 )WIS12 (+ l )CHA11 (+0 )Proficiency Bonus +3Multiattack. The enchanter makes three Arcane Burst attacks.Arcane Burst. Me lee or Ranged Sp ell Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft .or range 120 ft., one target. Hit : 19 (3dl0 + 3) ps yc hic damage.Spellcasting. The enchanter casts one of the following spells ,using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 14) :At will:friends, mage hand, message2/day each: charm person, mage armor, hold person , invisibility,suggestion, tonguesREACTIONSInstinctive Charm (Recharge 4-6). When a visible creaturewithin 30 feet of the enchanter makes an attack roll against it ,the enchanter forces the attacker to ma ke a DC 14 Wisdom sav-ing throw. On a failed save, the attacker redirects the attack rollto the creature closest to it , other than the enchanter or itself.If multiple eligible creatures are closest, the attacker chooseswhich one to target.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 261EVOKER WIZARDMedium Humanoid , Any AlignmentArmor Class 12 (15 with mage armor)Hit Points 121 (22d8 + 22)Speed 30 ft .STR9 (-1)DEX14 (+ 2)CON12 (+l)Saving Throws Int +7 , Wis +5Skills Arcana +7, History +7Senses passive Perception 11Languages any four languagesChallenge 9 (5 ,000 XP)nu A n'T'nn n 1 OPC""T"T A n'VINT17 (+3)WIS12 (+l)CHA11 (+O)Proficiency Bonus +4•ACTIONSMultiattack. The evoker makes three Arcane Burst attacks.Arcane Burst. Mefee or Ranged Spell Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft .or range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 25 (4dl0 + 3) force damage.Sculpted Explosion (Recharge 4-6). The evoker unleashes amagical explosion of a particular damage type: cold, fire, light-ning, or thunder. The magic erupts in a 20-foot-radius spherecentered on a point within 150 feet of the evoker. Each creaturein that area must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw. Theevoker can select up to three creatures it can see in the area toignore the spell , as the evoker sculpts the spell 's energy aroundthem. On a failed save, a creature takes 40 (9d8) damage ofthe chosen type and is knocked prone. On a successful save, acreature takes half as much damage and isn't knocked prone.Spellcasting. The evoker casts one of the following spells , usingIntelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 15):At will: fight , mage hand, message, prestidigitation2/day each: ice storm , lightning bolt, mage armor1/day: wall of iceILLUSIONIST WIZARDMedium Human oid, Any AlignmentArmor Class 12 (15 with mage armor)Hit Points 44 (8d8 + 8)Speed 30 ft.STR9 (-1)DEX14 (+2)CON13 (+l)Saving Throws Int +5, Wis +2Skills Arcana +5 , Hi story +5Senses passive Perception 10Languages any four languagesChallenge 3 (700 XP)INT16 (+3)WIS11 (+O)CHA12 (+l)Proficiency Bonus +2ACTIONSMultiattack. Th e illusionist makes two Arcane Bur st attacks .Arcane Burst. Melee or Ranged Spell Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft.or range 120 ft ., one target. Hit : 14 (2dl0 + 3) psychic damage.Spellcasting. The illu s ionist casts one of the following spe lls ,usin g Intelligence as the spel lcasting ability (spell save DC 13):At wi ll: dancing lights, mage hand, minor illusion2/day each: disguise se lf, invisibility, mage armor, major image ,phantasmal force, phantom steedBONUS ACTIONSDisplacem ent (Recharge 5-6) . The illu sion ist projects an illu-sion that makes the illu sionist appear to be standing in a placea few inches from its actua l location , causing any creature tohave disadvantage on attack ro ll s against the illusionist. Theeffect lasts for l minute, and it end s early if the illu sio ni st takesdamage , if it is incapacitated, or if it s speed becomes 0.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 263NECROMANCER WIZARDMedium Humanoid, Any AlignmentArmor Class 12 (1 5 with mage armor)Hit Points 110 (20d8 + 20)Speed 30 ft .STR9 (-1)DEX14 (+2)CON12 (+l)INT17 (+3)WIS12 (+l)CHA11 (+0)Saving Throws Int +7 , Wis +5Skills Arcana + 7, History +7Damage Resistances necroticSenses passive Perception 11Languages any four languagesChallenge 9 (5 ,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +4ACTIONSMultiattack. The necromancer makes three ArcaneBurst attacks .264 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYArcane Burst. Melee or Ranged Spell Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft.or range 120 ft ., one target. Hit: 25 (4dl0 + 3) necrotic damage.Spellcasting. The necromancer casts one of the followingspells , using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spellsave DC 15):At will: dancing lights, mage hand, prestidigitation2/day each: bestow curse, dimension door, mage armor, web1/day: circle of deathBONUS ACTIONSSummon Undead (1/Day). The necromancer magically sum-mons five skeletons or zombies (both appear in the MonsterManual). The summoned creatures appear in unoccupiedspaces within 60 feet of the necromancer, whom they obey.They take their turns immediately after the necromancer. Eachlasts for l hour, until it or the necromancer dies, or until thenecromancer dismisses it as a bonus action.REACTIONSGrim Harvest. When the necromancer kills a creature with ne -crotic damage, the necromancer regains 9 (2d8) hit points .'-T'RANSMUTER WIZARDMedium Humanoid , Any AlignmentArmor Class 12 (15 with mage armo r)Hit Points 49 (lld8)Speed 30 ft.STR9 (- 1)DEX14 (+2)CON11 (+ 0)Saving Throws Int +6, Wis +4Skills Arcana +6 , Histo ry +6Senses passive Perception 11Languages any four languagesChallenge 5 (1,800 XP)INT17 (+ 3)WIS12 (+l)CHA11 (+0)Proficiency Bonus +3Transmuter's Stone. The transmuter carries a magic stone itcrafted. The stone grants it one of the following benefits whilebearing the stone; the transmuter chooses the benefit at theend of each long rest:Darkvision. The transmuter has darkvision out to a rangeof 60 feet.Resilience. The transmuter has proficiency in Constitution sav-ing throws.Resistance. The transmuter has resistance to acid, cold, fire,lightning, or thunder damage (transmuter's choice wheneverchoosing this benefit).Speed. The transmuter's walking speed is increased by 10 feet.ACTIONSMultiattack. The transmuter makes three Arcane Burst attacks.Arcane Burst. Melee or Ranged Spell Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft.or range 120 ft ., one target. Hit: 19 (3dl0 + 3) acid damage.Spellcasting. The transmuter casts one of the following spells,using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 14):At will : light, message, prestidigitation2/da y each: fireball, hold person , knock, mage armor, poly-morph , slow1/da y: telekinesisBONUS ACTIONSTransmute (Recharge 4-6). The transmuter casts alter self orchanges the benefit ofTransmuter's Stone if bearing the stone.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 265Medium Plant, Typically Lawfu l NeutralArmor Class 18 (natural armor , shie ld)Hit Points 75 (10d8 + 30)Speed 30 ft., climb 30 ft .STR18 (+4)DEX12 (+1)CON16 (+ 3)INT10 (+ O)WIS13 (+1)Skills Ath letics +7, Percept ion +4 , Stealth +4Damage Vulnerabilities fireDamage Resistances bludgeoning , pierc i ngCondition Immunities charmed, frightenedSenses darkvision 60 ft. , passi ve Pe rcept ion 14Languages Syl vanCHA8 (-1)Challenge 5 (1 , 800 XP) Proficiency Bonus +3Plant Camouflage. The wood woad h as ad va nt age o n D ex terity(S t ea lt h) ch ecks it makes in ·any te rr ai n with am p le o b scu ringvegetat ion.Regeneration. T he woo d woa d regains 10 h it p oints at the startof its t urn if it is in co nt act with th e gro und . If th e wood woadtakes fire damage , th is trait does n't fu nc ti o n at th e start of th ewoo d woad's next t u rn. Th e wood woa d di es o nl y if it star t s it sturn with O hit points and doesn 't regenera te .Tree Stride. O nce o n each of its t urn s , t he wood woad ca n u se10 feet of its movement to st e p mag ica lly into one li vi ng t reewith in 5 feet of it and emerge from a seco nd livi ng t ree with in60 fee t of it t hat it can see, a pp ear in g in a n un occ upi ed s pacewit hi n 5 feet of the second t ree. Both trees m ust be Largeor bigger.ACTIONSMultiattack. T he wood woad makes two Cl ub a tt acks .Club . Me lee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit , reac h 5 ft. , one target.H it : 14 (4d4 + 4) force damage.266 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYWoonWoADA wood woad is a powerful bipedal Plant investedwith the soul of someone who gave up life to be-come an everlasting guardian.The ritual to create a wood woad is a prime-val secret passed down through generations offorest-dwelling societies and druid circles. Perform-ing the ritual isn't necessarily an evil act if the vic-tim-to-be is a willing sacrifice.In the ritual, a living person's chest is pierced andthe heart removed. A seed is pushed into the heart,which is then placed in a tree. Any hollow or crookwill do, but often a special cavity is carved out ofthe trunk. The tree is bathed and watered with theblood of the sacrificed victim, and the body is buriedamong the tree's roots. After three days, a sproutemerges from the ground at the base of the tree andswiftly grows into a bipedal form.This new body, armored in tough bark and bear-ing a gnarled club and shield, is at once ready to per-form its duty. The one who performed the ritual setsthe wood woad to its task , and the creature followsthose orders unceasingly.A wood woad has a hole where its heart would be,just as does the body of its former self, buried in theearth. Those who become wood woads trade theirfree will and all sense of sentiment for supernaturalstrength and a deathless duty. They exist only toprotect woodlands and the people who tend them. Awood woad's face is void and expressionless, exceptfor the motes of light that swim about in its eye sock-ets. Wood woads speak little, and when not calledon to take action, they root themselves in the earthand silently take sustenance from it.Like trees, wood woads need only sunlight, air,and nutrients from the earth to go on living. Be-cause they are undying, some wood woads outlivetheir original purpose. The site a wood woad guardsmight lose its power or significance over time, orthose whom it was assigned to guard might die. If itis freed from its specific duties, a wood woad mightroam to find another place of natural beauty or feyinfluence to watch over.Wood woads are drawn to creatures that haveclose ties to nature and that protect and respect theland, such as druids and treants (both appear in theMonster Manual). Some treants have wood woadservants by virtue of age-old pacts with druids orFey that performed the rituals, while others acquirethe services of freed wood woads that find renewedpurpose in serving a kindred guardian.XVARTSXvarts are cowardly, greedy creatures spawned bya renegad e demigod, Raxivort. They have blue skin ,orange eyes, and receding hairlines, mirroring theircreator's appearance. Th ey stand about 3 feet tall.Raxivort spent centuries watching over the trea-sury of Graz'zt (appears in this book), and in time ,Raxivort plundered his lord's vault. One of the trea-sures he stole was the Infinity Spindl e, a crystallineshard that could transform even a creature as lowlyas Raxivort into a demigod. After his apotheosis,Raxivort forged the Black Sewers, a r ea lm withinPandemonium that he filled with his beloved crea-tures , rats and bats, which xvarts befriend to thisday. He enjoyed his reign only briefly before Graz 'ztunleashed his vengean ce. The demon prince urgedvillains far and wide to pursue the Infinity Spindlefor thems elves and destroy Raxivort.XVARTFleeing his pursuers , Raxivort wand e red across themultiverse and spawned xvarts, who not only looklike him but also cause any magic that could revealhis location to point to the nearest xvart instead .XVARTWARLOCK OF RAXIVORTSome xvarts are spawned with a trace of Raxivort'sdivine energy . These xvarts usually form a pact withhim and wield magic in his service as warlocks.XVARTSmall Monstrosity, Typically Chaotic EvilArmor Class 13 (leather armor)Hit Points 7 (2d6)Speed 30 ft . '--STR8 (-1)DEX14 (+2)Skills Stealth +4CON10 (+0)INT8 (-1)WIS7 (- 2)Senses darkv ision 30 ft ., passive Perception 8Languages AbyssalCHA7 (-2)Challenge 1/8 (25 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Ra xiv ort's Tongue . The xvart can communicate with ord inarybats and rats , as we ll as giant bats and giant rats .ACTIONSShorts wo rd . Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., onetarget . Hit: 5 (l d6 + 2) piercing damage. If at least one of thexv art's allies is within 5 feet of the target, the xv art can push thetarget 5 feet if the target is a Medium or smaller creature.Sling. Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, range 30/120 ft ., onetarget. Hit : 4 (ld4 + 2) bludgeoning damage .BONUS ACTIONSLow Cu nning. The xvart takes the Disengage action.XVART WARLOCK OF RAXIVORTSmall Monstrosity , Typically Chaoti c EvilArmor Class 12 (l 5 with mage armor)Hit Points 22 (5d6 + 5)Speed 30 ft .STR8 (- 1)DEX14 (+2)Skills Stealth +3CON12 (+l)INT8 (- 1)WIS11 (+0)Senses darkvision 30 ft. , passive Perception l 0Languages AbyssalCHA12 (+l)Challenge l (200 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Raxivort's Bl es s in g. When the xv art reduces an enemy to 0 hitpoints, the xvart gains 4 temporary hit points.Raxiv ort's To ngue. The xvart can communicate with ord inarybats and rats , as well as giant bats and giant rats .ACTIONSMu ltiattack. The xvart makes two Sc imitar or Raxivort'sBite attacks.Scimitar. Me le e Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft. , one tar-get. Hit : 5 (ld6 + 2) slashing damage.Raxiv ort's Bite. Ranged Spell Attack: +3 to hit, range 30 ft. , onecreature. Hit : 7 (ldlO + 2) poison damage.Spellcasting. The xvart casts one of the following spells, requir-ing no materia l components and using Charisma as the spell-casting abi lity (spell save DC 11):At will : detect magic, mage armor (self only} , mage hand , minorillusion , pr estidigitationl /day each : burning hands , invi sibilityBONUS ACTIONSLow Cunning. The xvart takes the Di se ngage action.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 267YAGNOLOTHLarge Fiend (Yugo/0th), Typically Neutral EvilArmor Class 17 (natural armor)Hit Points 147 (l4dl0 + 70)Speed 40 ft.STR19 (+4)DEX14 (+2)CON21 (+5)INT16 (+3)WIS15 (+2)Saving Throws Dex +6 , Int +7 , Wis +6, Cha +8CHA18 (+4)Skills Deception +8, Insight + 6, Perception +6, Persuasion +8Damage Resistances cold, fire , lightning; bludgeoning,piercing, and slashing from nonmagical attacksDamage Immunities acid , poisonCondition Immunities poisonedSenses blindsight 60 ft., darkvision 60 ft .,passive Perception 16Languages Abyssal, Infernal, telepathy 60 ft.Challenge 11 (7 ,200 XP) Proficiency Bonus +4Magic Resistance. The yagnoloth has advantage on savingthro ws against spells and other magical effects.ACTIONSMultiattack. The yagnoloth makes one Electrified Touch attackand one Massive Arm attack, or it makes one Massive Arm at-tack and uses Battlefield Cunning, if available, or Teleport.268 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY•YAGNOLOTHAnyone who would contract yugoloths for a taskusually ends up dealing with a yagnoloth. Cunningnegotiators, these strange Fiends handle the writingof contracts for their fellow yugoloths. Once a yagno-loth is hired, it communicates its employer's desiresto the yugoloths it commands.Although they are entruste d with leading lesseryugoloths, yagnoloths ultimately take their ordersfrom arcanaloths and ultroloths. Aside from theirsuperiors, yagnoloths have full authority over andexpect obedience from the yugoloths under theircommand. Yagnoloths follow the dictates of the con-tracts they negotiate but always include a loopholeto escape their obligations if the situation warrants.A yagnoloth has one arm of human size and onegiant-sized arm. During negotiations, the yagnolothuses its human-sized arm to draft and sign con-tracts. When a show of force is necessary or whencombat is joined, it attacks with its brutally powerfulgiant arm.Electrified Touch. Mele e Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft.,one target. Hit: 27 (6d8) lightning damage.Massive Arm. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 15 ft. , onetarget. Hit: 23 (3dl2 + 4) force damage. If the target is a crea-ture, it must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw orbecome stunned until the end of the yagnoloth's next turn .Battlefield Cunning (Recharge 4-6). Up to two allied yugolothswithin 60 feet of the yag noloth that can hear it can use theirreactions to make one melee attack each.Life Leech. The yag noloth touches one incapacitated creaturewithin 15 feet ofit. The target takes 36 (7d8 + 4) necrotic dam-age, and the yagnoloth gains temporary hit points equal to halfthe damage dealt. The target must succeed on a DC 16 Consti-tution saving throw, or its hit point maximum is reduced by anamount equal to half the necrotic damage taken. This reductionlasts until the target fini shes a long rest, and the target dies ifits hit point maximum is reduced to 0.Spellcasting. The yagnoloth casts one of the following spells,requiring no material components and using Charisma as thespellcasting ability (spell save DC 16):At w ill: darkness , detect magi c, dispel magic, invisibility (self only) ,suggestion3/day: lightning boltTeleport. The yagnoloth teleports, along with any equipmentit is wearing or carrying, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied spaceit can see.YEENOGHUThe Beast of Butchery appears as a great scarredgnoll, towering 14 feet tall. Yeenoghu is the GnollLord, and his creations are made in his twistedimage. When the demon lord hunted across the Ma-terial Plane, packs of hyenas followed in his wake,and those that ate of great Yeenoghu's kills becamegnolls.. Few others worship the Beast of Butchery,but those who do tend to take on a gnoll-like aspect,hunching over and filing their teeth down to points.Yeenoghu wants nothing more than slaughterand senseless destruction. Gnolls are his favoriteinstruments, and he drives his gnoll followers toever-greater atrocities in his name, even imbuingsome of their commanders with his powers, whichtransforms them into flinds (in this book). Yeenoghutakes pleasure in causing fear before death, and hesows sorrow and despair through destroying be-loved things. He doesn't parlay; to meet him is to dobattle with him-unless he becomes bored and wan-ders away. The Beast of Butchery has a long rivalrywith Baphomet, the Horned King (appears in thisbook), and the two demon lords and their followersattack one another on sight..,. .• _The Gnoll Lord is covered in matted fur and leath-ery hide, and his face resembles a grinning preda-tor's skull. He wields a triple-headed flail called theButcher, which he can summon into his hand at will,although he is as likely to tear his prey apart withhis teeth.YEENOGHU'S LAIRYeenoghu's lair in the Abyss is called the DeathDells. Its barren hills and ravines serve as a huntingground, where he pursues captured mortals in acruel game. Yeenoghu's lair is a place of blood anddeath, populated by gnolls, hyenas, and ghouls (see _the Monster Manual), and there are few structuresor signs of civilization on his layer of the Abyss.The challenge rating of Yeenoghu is 25 (75,000XP) when he's encountered in his lair.LAIR ACTIONSOn initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Yeeno-ghu can take one of the following lair actions; hecan't take the same lair action two rounds in a row:Incite the Pack. Until the next initiative count 20,all gnolls and hyenas within the lair are enraged,causing them to have advantage on melee weaponattack rolls and causing attack rolls to have advan-tage against them. ICHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 269Iron Spike. Yeenoghu causes an iron spike-5 feettall and 1 inch in diameter-to burst from theground at a point he can see within 100 feet ofhim. Any creature in the space where the spikeemerges must make a DC 24 Dexterity savingthrow. On a failed save, the creature takes 27(6d8) piercing damage and is restrained by beingimpaled on the spike. A creature can use an actionto remove itself (or a creature it can reach) fromthe spike, ending the restrained condition.Pack Rush. Each gnoll or hyena that Yeenoghu cansee can use its reaction to move up to its speed.R EGI O NA L EFFE C TSThe region containing Yeenoghu's lair is warpedby his magic, creating one or more of the follow-ing effects:Savage Predators. Predatory beasts within 6 milesof the lair become unusually savage, killing farmore than what they need for food. Carcassesof prey are left to rot in an unnatural display ofwasteful slaughter.YEENOGHUHuge Fiend (Demon) , Chaotic EvilAr mo r Class 20 (n at ura l arm o r)Hit Po ints 333 ( 23dl 2 + 184)Speed 50 ft.STR DEX29 (+ 9)"---l 6 (+ 3)CON23 (+ 8)INT15 (+ 3)Saving Throws Dex +10, Con +15, Wis +14Skills In t im id at io n +9, Per ce pt ion +14Damage Resistances cold , fire, lightn i ngW IS24 (+ 7)CHA15 (+2)Damage Immuniti es p ois on ; b lu dg e o ni ng , piercin g, ands la sh ing t hat is no n ma gica lCondition Immunities cha rm ed , exhaust ion, fr ighte n ed ,po iso n edSenses tru es ight 120 ft ., p ass ive Perce pti o n 24Languages all, te lep ath y 12 0 ft .Challenge 24 (62, 000 XP ) Proficiency Bonus +7Legendary Resistance (3/Day). lfYeenoghu fails a saving throw ,he can choose to succeed instead.Magic Resistance. Yeenoghu has advantage on saving throwsagainst spells and other magical effects.ACT I ONSMultiattack. Yeenoghu makes three Flail attacks.Flail. Melee Weapon Attack: +16 to hit , reach 15 ft. , one target .Hit: 22 (2dl2 + 9) force damage. If it 's his t urn , Yeenoghu cancause the target to suffer one of the following additional ef-fects , each of which he can apply only once per turn :270 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY•Spiky Terrain. Within 1 mile of the lair, large ironspikes grow out of the ground and stone surfaces.Yeenoghu impales the bodies of the slain onthese spikes.IfYeenoghu dies, these effects fade over the courseof ldlO days.CULTISTS OF YEENOGHUYeenoghu grants special abilities to his cultists. Hismost devoted followers gain the Gnashing Jaws ac-tion and the Rampage bonus action, while cult lead-ers gain the Aura of Bloodthirst trait.Gnashingjaws. Melee Weapon Attack: bonus to hit equal to thiscreature's proficiency bonus plus its Strength modifier, reach5 ft ., one target. Hit : l d4 + this creature's Strength modifierpiercing damage .Rampage. When this creature reduces a creature to O hit pointswith a melee attack on its turn , it can take a bonus action tomove up to half its speed and make one Gnashing Jaws attack .Aura of 8/oodthirst. If this creature isn't incapacitated, anycreature that has Rampage can make its Gnashing Jaws attackas a bonus action while within 10 feet of this creature.Confusion. The target must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom savingthrow or be affected by the confusion spell until the start ofYeenoghu 's next turn.Force. The target takes an extra 13 (2dl 2) force damage.Paralysis. The target must succeed on a DC 17 Constitutionsaving throw or be paralyzed until the start ofYeenoghu'snext turn.Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +16 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target .Hit : 20 (2dl0 + 9) acid damage .Spellcasting. Yeenoghu casts one of the following spells, re-quiring no material components and using Charisma as thespellcasting ability (spell save DC 17):At will: detect magic3/day each: dispel magic.fear, invisibility1/day: teleportBONUS ACTIONSRampage. When Yeenoghu reduces a creature to O hit pointswith a melee attack, he moves up to half his speed and makesone Bite attack.LEGENDARY ACTIONSYeenoghu can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the op-tions below. Only one legendary action option can be used at atime and only at the end of another creature 's turn . Yeenoghuregains spent legendary actions at the start of his turn.Charge. Yeenoghu moves up to his speed .Swat Away. Yeenoghu makes one Flail attack . If the attack hits,the target must succeed on a DC 24 Strength saving throw orbe pushed up to 15 feet in a straight line away from Yeeno-ghu . If the saving throw fails by 5 or more , the target is alsoknocked prone .Savage (Costs 2 Actions). Yeenoghu makes a separate Bite at-tack against each creature within 10 feet of him.YETHHOUNDLarge Fey , Typically Neutral EvilArmor Class 14 (natural armor)Hit Points 51 (6dl0 + 18)Speed 40 ft ., fly 40 ft . (hover)STR18 (+4)DEX17 (+3)Skills Perception +5CON16 (+3)INT5 (-3)WIS12 (+l)CHA7 (- 2)Damage Immunities bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing fromnonmagical attacks not made with silvered weaponsCondition Immunities charmed, exhaustion , frightenedSenses darkvision 60 ft. , passive Perception 15Languages understands Common, Elvish, and Sylvan but can'tspeakChallenge 4 (1,100 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Sunlight Banishment. If the yeth hound starts its turn in sun-light, it is transported to the Ethereal Plane. While sunlightshines on the spot from which it vanished , the hound must re-main in the Deep Ethereal. After sunset, it returns to the Border- Etfiereal at the same spot , whereupon it typical ly sets out tofind its pack or its master. The hound is visible on the MaterialPlane while it is in the Border Ethereal, and vice versa, but itcan 't affect or be affected by anything on the other plane. Onceit is adjacent to its master or a pack mate that is on the Mate-ria l Plane, a yeth hound in the Border Ethereal can return to theMaterial Plane as an action.Telepathic Bond. While the yeth hound is on the same plane ofexistence as its master, it can magically convey what it sensesto its master, and the two can communicate telepathically witheach other.ACTIONSBite. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) piercing damage, plus 14 (4d6) psychic dam-age if the target is frightened.Baleful Baying. The yeth hound bays magically. Every enemywithin 300 feet of the hound that can hear it must succeed on aDC 13 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened of the hound untilthe end of the hound's next turn or until the hound is incapac-itated . A frightened target that starts its turn within 30 feet ofthe hound must use all its movement on that turn to get as farfrom the hound as possible, must finish the move before takingan action, and must take the most direct route, even if hazardslie that way. A target that successfully saves is immune to thebaying of all yeth hounds for the next 24 hours .YETH HOUNDGranted by mighty Fey to individuals who pleasethem, yeth hounds serve their masters like huntingdogs. They race in pursuit of their prey, running itdown until it's too exhausted to fight back. Only thethreat of dawn drives the pack back into hiding.A pack of yeth hounds can be created by powerfulFey such as the Queen of Air and Darkness. Eachpack's master can telepathically communicate withtheir yeth hounds to give the pack commands fromafar. If a pack 's master is killed, the hounds seek outa new master, typically an evil vampire, necroman-cer, or hag (all appear in the Monster Manual).A yeth hound stands about 5 feet tall at the shoul-der and weighs around 400 pounds. Its head has ahuman-like face and glowing red eyes. The creaturegives off a smoky odor.Yeth hounds make a ghastly baying sound thatcauses most creatures to flee in terror. They chasethose who run and torment them before closing infor the kill. Those that fight back discover that mun-dane weapons partially pass through yeth houndsas if they were made of fog, but magic weapons andsilvered weapons can strike true.Yeth hounds can 't stand sunlight. A pack huntsat night and seeks to return to its dark den beforedawn. If a yeth hound is exposed to natural sunlight,it fades away, vanishing into the Ethereal Plane , andits master can retrieve it only after sunset.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 271YUAN-TI ANATHEMAAs part of their quest for godhood, a yuan-ti abom-ination might perform a ritual that , if successful ,transforms them into an even greater form: a yuan-tianathema . This ritual demands the sacrifice of hun-dreds of snakes and requires the abomination tobathe in the blood of their enemies. The transforma-tion is quick but painful.Anathemas consider themselves demigods on thepath to greater divinity. They demand obeisancefrom weaker creatures and use every resource attheir disposal to war against neighbors , seeking thecaptives , sacrifices , glory, and riches the anathemasbe li eve th ey n ee d to achieve tru e divinity.Anath e mas don't ag e, allowing th em to pursu etheir goals until the e nd of days. Tr uly pow erfulon es might rul e multiple yua n-ti cities and bring en-tire regions und er th e ir control.272 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYYUAN-TI ANATHEMAHu ge Monstrosity, Typically Neutral EvilArmor Class 16 (natural armor)Hit Points 189 (l8dl2 + 72)Speed 40 ft ., climb 40 ft., swim 40 ft .STR23 (+6)DEXl3 (+l)CON19 (+4)INT19 (+4)Skills Perception +ll, Stealth +5Damage Resistances acid, fire, lightningDamage Immunities poisonCondition Immunities poisonedWIS17 (+3)CHA20 (+5)Senses blindsight 30 ft., darkvision 60 ft ., passive Perception 21Languages Ab yssal , Common , DraconicChallenge 12 (8,400 XP) Proficiency Bonus +4Magic Resistance. The anathema has advantage on sav in gthrows against spells and other magical effects.Ophidiophobia Aura. Any creature of the anathema's choice,other than a snake or a yuan -ti , that starts it s turn within 30feet of the anathema must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom sav in gthrow or become frightened of snakes and yuan-ti. A fright-ened target can repeat the saving throw at the e nd of each ofits turns , ending the effect on itself on a success . If a target'ssaving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the target isimmune to this anathama's aura for the next 24 hours.Six Heads. The anathema has advantage on saves against beingblinded, charmed, deafened, frightened, stunned , or knockedunconscious.ACTIONSMultiattack (Anathema Form Only). The anathema makes twoClaw attacks and one Flurry of Bites attack.Claw (Anathema Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit ,reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: l3 (2d6 + 6) slashing damage.Flurry of Bites (Anathema Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack:+10 to hit, reach 10 ft ., one creature . Hit: 27 (6d6 + 6) piercingdamage plus 14 (4d6) poison damage.Constrict (Snake Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit,reach 15 ft., one Large or sma ll er creature . Hit: 16 (3d6 + 6)bludgeoning damage plus 7 (2d6) ac id damage, and the ta rgetis grapp led (escape DC 16). Until this grapple ends, the targetis restrained , and it takes 16 (3d6 + 6) bludgeoning damageplus 7 (2d6) acid damage at the start of each of its turns. Theanathema can constrict only one creature at a time.Spellcasting (Anathema Form Only). Th e anathema casts oneof the following spe ll s, requiring no material components andusing Charisma as the spe ll casting abi lit y (spell save DC 17) :At wi ll: animal friendship (snakes only)3/day each: darkness, entangle.fear, polymorph, suggestionBONUS ACTIONSChange Shape. The anathema tran sforms into a Huge con s tri c-tor s nake or back into its true form . It s st atistics are the samein each form. Any equipment it is wearing or carrying isn 'ttransformed .T~trn,U~~h~ ~ ~h ~ ,;,n ..•~. 7fii a~//WW 4'a~~·- ?n~YUAN-TIBROODGUARDBroodguards were once Humanoids, but they havebeen transformed by yuan-ti into simpleminded ,scaly Monstrosities that do their serpentine mas-ters' bidding. The transformation process warps notonly a subject's body but also their mind, makingthem instinctively obey any yuan-ti and filling themwith a seething rage at the sight of non-reptiliancreatures.Although broodguards can no longer think asclearly as before their transformation, they are ableto perform simple yet important tasks in the com-munity, such as guarding eggs or patrolling for in-truders. Yuan-ti refer to broodguards as "histachii,"which means "egg-watchers."'--- Most broodguards are made from human captivesforced to consume a magical brew that rendersthem helpless and unable to fight off the inevitabletransformation. A human transformed into a brood-guard loses all semblance of who they once were.A broodguard is hairless and emaciated, with scalyskin. They have a forked tongue, and they smellfaintly of rotting meat. Broodguards can speak butrarely do so, preferring to communicate via snake -like hisses and guttural noises.MAKING A BROODGUARDYuan-ti create broodguards from captured Human-oids. Each subject is fed a special potion that im-mediately renders it incapacitated and transformsit into a broodguard over the next ld6 + 6 days. Asubject forced to imbibe the brew can make a DC 15Constitution saving throw; on a success, it takes 14(4d6) poison damage and is otherwise unaffected .A spell such as l esse r restoration or remove cursecan end the transformation process at any time be-fore it runs its course . After the process is complete,only a wish spell can reverse the effect.YUAN-TIBROODGUARDMedium Monstrosity, Typically Neutral E~ilArmor Class 14 (natural armor)Hit Points 45 (7d8 + 14)Speed 30 ft .STR15 (+2)DEX14 (+2)CON14 (+ 2)INT6 (-2)Saving Throws Str +4 , Dex +4, Wis +2Skills Perception +2Damage Immunities poisonWIS11 (+O)Condition Immunities charmed, paralyzed , poisonedSenses darkvision 60 ft. , passive Perception 12Languages Abyssal, Common, DraconicCHA4 (-3)Challenge 2 (450 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Reckles s. At t he start of its turn, the brood guard can gain ad-vantage on all me lee weapon attack rol ls it makes d ur ing thatturn , but at tack ro ll s aga i nst it have advantage unti l the start ofits next turn.ACTIONSMultiattack. T he broodguard makes one Bite attack and twoClaw attacks.Bit e. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit , reach 5 ft ., one target .Hit: 6 (l d8 + 2) piercing damage.Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target .Hit: 5 (l d6 + 2) s lashing damage.ICHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 273YUAN -TI MIND WHISPERERMind whisperers are yuan-ti malison spellcasterswho enter into a pact with the serpent god Sseth,the Sibilant Death. They use their abilities to con-vert others to their faith, increase their personalpower, and befuddle the minds of their enemies.Mind whisperers are elusive, manipulative, unpre-dictable, and willing to cheat or kill comrades andrivals alike if doing so benefits them. The worship-ers of Sseth have their hands in many schemes, of-ten plying the middle ground between two factions,and thus spend a lot of energy making sure none oftheir allies learn of their conflicting connections.Even among Sseth-worshiping communities, mindwhisperers are known for being self-important,sneaky, and prone to flee at the first sign of trouble.274 CHAPTER 2 \ BESTIARYYUAN-TI MIND WHISPERERMedium Monstrosity (Warlock), Typically Neutral EvilArmor Class 14 (natural armor)Hit Points 71 (l3d8 + 13)Speed 30 ft.STR16 (+3)DEX14 (+2)CON13 (+l)Saving Throws Wis +4, Cha +5Skills Deception + 5, Stealth +4Damage Immunities poisonCondition Immunities poisonedINT14 (+2)WIS14 (+2 )Senses darkv ision 120 ft ., passive Perception 12Languages Ab yssa l, Common , Dracon icCHA16 (+3)Challenge 4 (l, 100 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Devil's Sight. Magical darkne ss doesn 't impede the yuan-ti 'sdark vis ion.Magic Resistance. The yuan -ti has advantage on saving thro wsagainst spells and other magical effects .Sseth's Blessing. When the yuan-ti reduces an enemy to 0 hitpoints , the yuan-ti gains 9 temporary hit points.ACTIONSMultiattack. The yuan-ti makes two Bite attacks and one Scimi-tar attack, or it makes two Spectral Fangs attacks.Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft. , one target.Hit: 5 (l d4 + 3) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) poison damage.Scimitar (Yuan-ti Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit,reach 5 ft ., one target. Hit : 6 (ld6 + 3) slashing damage.Spectral Fangs . Ranged Spell Attack: +5 to hit, range 120 ft. , onetarget. Hit: 16 (3d8 + 3) psychic damage.Spellcasting (Yuan-ti Form Only) . The yuan-ti casts one of thefo llowing spells, requiring no material components and usingCharisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 13):At wi ll : animal friendship (snakes on ly), message, minor illusion ,prestidigitation3/day: suggestion2/day each: detect thoughts, hypnotic patternBONUS ACTIONSChange Shape. The yuan-ti transforms into a Medium snake orback into it s true form . Its statistics are the same in each form .Any equipment it is wear in g or carrying isn 't transformed. If itdies, it stays in it s current form.YUAN-TI NIGHTMARE SPEAKERMedium Monstrosity (Warlock), Typicaffy Neutral EvilArmor Class 14 (natural armor)Hit Points 71 (13d8 + 13)Speed 30 ft.STR16 (+3)DEX14 (+2)CON13 (+l)Saving Throws Wis +3, Cha +5Skills Deception +5, Stealth +4Damage Immunities poisonCondition Immunities poisonedINT14 (+2)WIS12 (+l)Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 11Languages Aby ssa l, Common, DraconicCHA16 (+3)Challenge 4 (1 ,100 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2Devil's Sight. Magical darkness doesn't impede the yuan-ti'sdarkvision .Magic Resistance. The yuan-ti has advantage on saving throwsagainst spells and other magical effects .ACTIONSMultiattack. The yuan-ti makes one Constrict attack and oneScimitar attack, or it makes two Spectral Fangs attacks .Constrict. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 10 ft., onetarget. Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) bludgeoning damage, and the targetis grappled (escape DC 14) if it is a Large or smaller creature.Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained. The yuan-ti canconstrict only one creature at a time.YUAN-TI NIGHTMARE SPEAKERNightmare speakers are yuan-ti malison priestswho make a pact with the Dendar the Night Serpentto feed their deity the fears and nightmares of theirvictims in exchange for power in the mortal world.These priests receive nightmarish visions from Den-dar that they interpret as prophecies , and they thenuse their magic and influence to make these visionscome true.Nightmare speakers revel in torturing others,keeping their victims in a constant state of fear anddread. They prefer to terrify rather than kill theiropponents. They manipulate communities for thepurpose of acquiring more victims and enjoy thecompany of Undead.Scimitar (Yuan-ti Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit,reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (ld6 + 3) slashing damage .Spectral Fangs. Ranged Spell Attack: +5 to hit, range 120 ft.,one target. Hit: 16 (3d8 + 3) necrotic damage .Invoke Nightmare (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). Theyuan-ti taps into the nightmares of one creature it can seewithin 60 feet of it and creates an illusory, immobile manifesta-tion of the creature's deepest fears , visible only to that creature.The target must make a DC 13 Intelligence saving throw. Ona failed save, the target takes 22 (4dl0) psychic damage andis frightened of the manifestation, believing it to be real. Theyuan-ti must concentrate to maintain the illusion (as if concen-trating on a spell), which lasts for up to l minute and can 't beharmed. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end ofeach of its turns, ending the illusion on a success or taking 11(2dl0) psychic damage on a fai lure.Spellcasting (Yuan-ti Form Only). The yuan-ti casts one of thefollowing spells, requiring no material components and usingCharisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 13):At will: animal friendship (snakes only), mage hand, message,prestidigitation3/day: suggestion2/day each: darkness.fearBONUS ACTIONSChange Shape. The yuan-ti transforms into a Medium snake orback into its true form. Its statistics are the same in each form.Any equipment it is wearing or carrying isn't transformed. If itdies, it stays in its current form.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 275YUAN -TI PIT MASTERWith snakes for arms, pit masters are yuan-ti mal-ison priests who have made a pact with the godMerrshaulk and seek to rouse him from his slumberby sacrificing Humanoids to him . They are the mosttraditionalist yuan-ti and believe that they are bestequipped to achieve the goals of their people.Pit masters ar e deeply involved in yuan-ti's long-t er m pl a n to ta ke ov er Humanoid governments, aswe ll as in the ongoing effort to prot ec t their citiesfrom disc ov ery or a tta c ks by hostil es . Th ey oppos er ec kle ss behavior a nd a rgu e for a slow, ca utious ap-pro ac h in all matt er s .276 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYYUAN-TI PIT MASTERMedium Monstrosity (Warlock), Typically Neutral EvilArmor Class 14 (natural armor)Hit Points 88 (l6d8 + 16)Speed 30 ft.STR16 (+3)DEX14 (+2)CON13 (+l)Saving Throws Wis +4 , Cha +6Skills Deception +6, Stealth +5Damage Immunities poisonCondition Immunities poisonedINT14 (+2)WIS12 (+l)Senses darkvision 120 ft ., passive Perception llLanguages Abyssal , Common , DraconicCHA16 (+ 3)Challenge 5 (1 ,800 XP) Proficiency Bonus +3Devil's Sight. Magical darkness doesn't impede the yuan-ti'sdarkvision.Magic Resistance. The yuan-ti has advantage on saving throwsagainst spells and other magical effects.ACTIONSMultiattack. The yuan-ti makes three Bite attacks or two Spec-tral Fangs attacks .Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.Hit: 5 (ld4 + 3) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) poison damage.Spectral Fangs. Ranged Spell Attack: +6 to hit, range 120 ft.,one target. Hit: 16 (3d8 + 3) poison damage.Merrshaulk's Slumber (1/Day). The yuan-ti targets up to fivecreatures that it can see within 60 feet of it. Each target mustsucceed on a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or fa ll into amagical sleep and be unconscious for 10 minutes. A sleepingtarget awakens if it takes damage or if someone uses an actionto shake or slap it awake. This magical sleep has no effect on acreature immune to being charmed.Spellcasting (Yuan-ti Form Only). The yuan-ti casts one of thefollowing spe ll s, requiring no material components and usingCharisma as the spel lc asting ability (spell save DC 14):At wi ll: animal friendship (snakes only), guidance, magehand, message3/day: suggestion2/day each: hold person, invisibilityBONUS ACTIONSChange Shape. The yuan-ti transforms into a Medium snake orback into its true form. It s stati stics are the same in each form .Any equipment it is wearing or carrying isn't transformed. Itdoesn't change form if it die s.. ,·• ,' "r ··;...,.t LEVEL 5: TEMPLE MOUNT .,,.. ~- ..'ICHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY '2.77ZARATANWhen a zaratan is summoned from the Ele-mental Plane of Earth, the ground rises up totake the shape of a hulking, armored reptile.A zaratan 's steps trigger shock waves severeenough to level structures. It expresses its ragethrough trumpeting calls and the occasionalboulder or blast of debris it spews from itscavernous maw. If seriously injured, a zaratanretracts its appendages to gain sh elter beneathits impervious shell, biding its time until it re-c ov e rs and can resume its march.ZARATANGargantuan Elemental, Typically NeutralArmor Class 21 (natural armor)Hit Points 307 (l 5d20 + 150)Speed 40 ft., swim 40 ft.STR30 (+10)DEX10 (+0)CON30 (+10)Saving Throws Wis +12, Cha+ 11INT2 (-4)WIS21 (+5)CHA18 (+4)Damage Resistances cold, fire, lightning; bludgeoning,piercing, and slashing from nonmagical attacksDamage Immunities poisonCondition Immunities exhaustion, paralyzed, petrified ,poisoned, stunnedSenses darkvision 60 ft., tremorsense 60 ft., passive Perception 15Languages-Challenge 22 (41 ,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +7Legendary Resistance (3/Day) . If the zaratan fails a savingthrow, it can choose to succeed instead.Siege Monster. The elemental deals double damage to objectsand structures (included in Earth-Shaking Movement).ACTIONSMultiattack. The zaratan makes one Bite attack and oneStomp attack.Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +17 to hit, reach 20 ft., one target.Hit: 28 (4d8 + 10) force damage.Stomp. Melee Weapon Attack: +17 to hit , reach 20 ft. , one tar-get. Hit: 26 (3dl0 + 10) thunder damage.Spit Rock . Ranged Weapon Attack: +17 to hit, range 120 ft./240ft. , one target. Hit: 31 (6d8 + 10) force damage.Spew Debris (Recharge 5-6) . The zaratan exhales rocky debrisin a 90-foot cube. Each creature in that area mu st make a DC25 De xterity saving throw. A creature takes 33 (6dl0) blud -geoning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage ona s uccessful one. A creature that fails the save by 5 or more isknocked prone.278 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYBONUS ACTIONSEarth-Shaking Movement. After moving at least 10 feet on theground, the zaratan sends a shock wave through the ground ina 120-foot-radius circle centered on itself. That area becomesdifficult terrain for l minute. Each creature on the ground thatis concentrating must succeed on a DC 25 Constitution savingthrow or the creature's concentration is broken.The shock wave deals 100 thunder damage to all structuresin contact with the ground in the area. If a creature is near astructure that collapses, the creature might be buried; a crea-ture within half the distance of the structure's height mustmake a DC 25 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save , thecreature takes 17 (5d6) bludgeoning damage, is knocked prone,and is trapped in the rubble. A trapped creature is restrained,requiring a successful DC 20 Strength (Athletics) check as anaction to escape. Another creature within 5 feet of the buriedcreature can use its action to clear rubble and grant advantageon the check. If three creatures use their actions in this way,the check is an automatic success. On a successful save, thecreature takes half as much damage and doesn't fall prone orbecome trapped.LEGENDARY ACTIONSThe zaratan can take 3 legendary actions , choosing from theoptions below. Only one legendary action option can be usedat a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. Thezaratan regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn.Stomp. The zaratan makes one Stomp attack.Move. The zaratan moves up to its speed.Spit (Costs 2 Actions) . The zaratan makes one Spit Rock attack.Retract (Costs 2 Actions). The zaratan retracts into its shell.Until it takes its Emerge action, it has resistance to all dam-age, and it is restrained. The next time it takes a legendaryaction, it must take its Revitalize or Emerge action.Revitalize (Costs 2 Actions). The zaratan can use this optiononly if it is retracted in its shell. It regains 52 (5d20) hitpoints . The next time it takes a legendary action , it must takeits Emerge action .Emerge (Costs 2 Actions) . The zaratan emerges from its shelland makes on e Spit Rock atta ck. It can use this option only ifit is retracted in it s shell.ZARIELOnce a mighty angel charged with watching thetides of the Blood War, Zariel succumbed to thecorrupting influence of the Nine Hells and fell fromgrace. Asmodeus admired Zariel's passion for warand offered her rulership of Avernus. She acceptedhi s offer, and he transformed h er into an archdevil.Zariel's rise in status came at the expe ns e of Bel,he r pit fiend predecessor. Zariel and Be l hate eachother. To k eep Bel busy and out of he r sight, Zarieltasks him with forging weapons, armor, and grue-some demon-slaying machines.To replenish her legions, Zariel n eeds the souls ofmortals to create lemur es, which she can then pro-mote to higher forms of devils. She is keenly inter-ested in collecting souls from the greatest warriorson the Material Plane . She bargains hard, and thereis little hope of wriggling out of a pact. However, sheexp ec ts the b es t from her servants, so she allowsh er mortal followers to liv e out their liv es providedthey continue to hon e their talents to increase theirvalue. As a result , Zari el's servants are universallyeffective, disciplined , and dangerous.ZARIEL' s LAIRZariel makes her lair in a basalt citadel that rises upin Avernus. From nearly a mile away, one can hearthe screams coming from burned victims chainedto the stronghold's wall- the dying remains of thosewho failed to impress the archdevil. The stronghold,covering five square miles, is surrounded by wallsreinforced with high turrets. Devils of all kindscraw l over the structure, ensuring that no intrudersbreach their defenses.LAIR ACTIONSOn initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Zarielcan take one of the following lair actions; she can 'ttake the same lair action two rounds in a row:Fireball. Zariel casts the fireball spell.Infernal Illusions. Zariel casts the major imagespell four times, targ et ing differ ent areas with it.Zariel prefers to create imag es of intruders' lovedones being burned alive. Zariel doesn't need toconcentrate on the spells, which end on initiativeco unt 20 of the next round. Each creature thatcan see these illusions must succeed on a DC 26Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of theillusion for 1 minute. A frightened creature canr epeat the saving throw at the end of each of itsturns, e nding the effect on itself on a success.CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 279REGIONAL EFFECTSThe region containing Zariel's lair is warped byher magic, which creates one or more of the follow-ing effects:Hellscape. The area within 9 miles of the lair isfilled with screaming voices and the stench ofburning meat.Pyres. Once every 60 fee t within 1 mile of the lair,10-foot-high gouts of flame rise from the ground.Any creature or object that touches the flametakes 7 (2d6) fire damag e, though it can take thisdamage no more than once per round.Smoke. The area within 2 miles of the lair, but nocloser than 500 feet , is filled with smoke , whichcauses the area to be heavily obscured. Thesmoke can't be cleared away.If Zariel dies, these effects fade over the course ofldlO days.ZARIELLarge Fiend (Devil), Lawful EvilArmor Class 21 (natural armor)Hit Points 420 (29dl0 + 261)Speed 50 ft., fly 150 ft.STR27 (+8)DEX24 (+7)CON28 (+9)INT26 (+8)Saving Throws Int+ 16, Wis+ 16 , Cha +18Skills Intimidation +18, Perception +16WIS27 (+8)CHA30 (+10)Damage Resistances cold, fire, radiant; bludgeoning, piercing,and s lashing from nonmagical attacks that aren't silveredDamage Immunities necrotic, poisonCondition Immunities charmed, exhaustion , frightened,poisonedSenses darkvision 120 ft ., passive Perception 26Languages all, telepathy 120 ft.Challenge 26 (90 ,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +8Devil's Sight. Magical darkness doesn't impede Zariel'sdarkvision.Legendary Resistance (3/Day) . lfZariel fails a saving throw, shecan choose to succeed instead.Magic Resistance. Zariel has advantage on saving throwsagainst spells and other magical effects.Regeneration. Zariel regains 20 hit points at the start of herturn. If she takes radiant damage, this trait doesn't function atthe start of her next turn. Zari el dies only if she starts her turnwith O hit points and doesn't regenerate.ACTIONSMultiattack. Zariel makes three Flail or Longsword attacks. Shecan replace one attack with a use of Horrid Touch, if available.280 CHAPTER 2 I BESTIARYCULTISTS OF ZARIELZariel grants special abilities to her most loyal cult-ists. They can gain th e F eroc ious Surge trait, andher cult's leaders can also gain the Infernal Tac-tics trait.Ferocious Surge (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). Whenthis creature hits with an attack roll that isn't a critical hit, itcan turn the hit into a critical hit.Infernal Tactics. Immediately after rolling initiative, this crea-ture can choose itself and up to three allies it can see if it isn'tincapacitated . It can swap the initiative results of the chosencreatures among them.Flail. Melee Weapon Attack :+ 16 to hit, reach l O ft., one target.Hit: 17 (2d8 + 8) force damage plus 36 (8d8) fire damage.Longsword. Melee Weapon Attack:+16 to hit, reach l O ft.,one target. Hit : 17 (2d8 + 8) radiant damage , or 19 (2dl0 +8) radiant damage when used with two hands , plus 36 (8d8)fire damage.Horrid Touch (Recharge 5-6). Zariel touches one creaturewithin 10 feet of her. The target must succeed on a DC 26 Con-stitution saving throw or take 44 (8dl0) necrotic damage andbe poisoned for l minute. While poisoned in this way, the tar-get is blinded and deafened . The target can repeat the savingthrow at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itselfon a success.Spellcasting. Zari el casts one of the following spells, requiringno material components and using Charisma as the spellcast-ing ability (spell save DC 26):At will: alter self (can become Medium when changing her ap-pearance) , detect evil and good,fireba/1, invisibility (self only},major image, wall offire3/day each: blade barrier, dispel evil and good,finger of deathTeleport. Zariel teleports, along with any equipment she iswearing or carrying, up to 120 feet to an unoccupied spaceshe can see.LEGENDARY ACTIONSZariel can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the optionsbelow. Only one legendary action option can be used at a timeand only at the end of another creature's turn. Zariel regainsspent legendary actions at the start of her turn.Teleport. Zariel uses Teleport.Immolating Gaze (Costs 2 Actions). Zariel turns her magicalgaze toward one creature she can see within 120 feet of herand commands it to burn. The target must succeed on a DC26 Wisdom saving throw or take 22 (4dl0) fire damage.ZUGGTMOYThe Demon Queen of Fungi, Lady of Rot and Decay,Zuggtmoy is an alien creature whose only desire isto infect the living with spores, transforming theminto her mindless servants and, eventually, intodecomposing hosts for the mushrooms, molds, andot h er fungi that she spawns.Zuggtmoy is utterly inhum an, but she can moldher fungoid form into an approximation of a bipedalshape , including the skeletal-thin figure depictedin grimoires and ancient art, draped and veiled inmycelia and lichen. Indeed, much of her appearanceand manner, and that of her servants, is a mockeryof mortal life and its many facets.Zuggtmoy's cultists often follow her unwittingly.Most are fungus-infected to some degree, whet herthrough inhaling her mind-controlling spores or be-ing transformed to the point where flesh and fungusbecome one . Such cultists are fungal extensions ofthe Demon Queen's will. Their devotion might beginwith the seemingly harmless promises offered byexotic spores and mushrooms , but it quickly con-sumes them , body and soul.ZUGGTMOY'S LAIRZuggtmoy's principal lair is her palace on Shedak-lah. It consists of two dozen immense mushroomsof pale yellow and rancid brown. These massivefungi are some of the largest in existence. They aresurro unded by a field of acidic puffballs and poison-ous vapors. The mushrooms are interconnected bybridges of she lf fungus, and countless chambershave been hollowed out inside their rubbery sta lks.LAIR ACTIONSOn initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), Zuggt-moy can take one of the following lair actions; shecan't take the same lair action two rounds in a row:Rally Plants. Up to four Plant creatures that arefriendly to Zuggtmoy and that Zuggtmoy can seecan u se their reactions to move up to their speedand make one weapon attack.Summon Fungi. Zuggtmoy causes four gas sporesor violet fungi (both appear in the Monster Man-ual) to appear in unoccupied spaces that shechooses within the lair. They vanish after 1 hour.ICHAPTER 2 I BESTIARY 281Unleash Spores. Zuggtmoy uses either her Infesta-tion Spores or her Mind Control Spores, centeredon a mushroom or other fungus within her lair,instead of on herself.REGIONAL EFFECTSThe region containing Zuggtmoy's lair is warpedby her magic, creating one or more of the follow-ing effects:Corrupted Nature. Within 6 miles of the lair, allWisdom (Medicine) and Wisdom (Survival) checkshave disadvantage.Fungal Infestation. Molds and fungi grow on sur-faces within 6 miles of the lair, even where theywould normally find no purchase.ZUGGTMOYLarge Fiend (Demon) , Chaotic EvilArmor Class i8 (natural armor)Hit Points 304 (32dl0 + 128)Speed 30 ft.STR22 (+6)DEX15 (+2)CON18 (+4)INT20 (+5)Saving Throws Dex +9, Con +11, Wis+ 11Skills Perception +11Damage Resistances cold, fire, lightningWIS19 (+4)CHA24 (+7)Damage Immunities poison; bludgeoning, piercing, andslashing that is nonmagicalCondition Immunities charmed , exhaustion, frightened,poisonedSenses trues ight 120 ft ., passive Perception 21Languages all, telepathy 120 ft.Challenge 23 (50,000 XP) Proficiency Bonus +7Legendary Resistance (3/Day). lfZuggtmoy fails a saving throw,she can choose to succeed instead.Magic Resistance. Zuggtmoy has advantage on saving throwsagainst spells and other magical effects .ACTIONSMultiattack. Zuggtmoy makes three Pseudopod attacks.Pseudopod. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 10 ft.,one target. Hit: 15 (2d8 + 6) force damage plus 9 (2d8) poi-son damage.Spellcasting. Zuggtmoy casts one of the following spells, re-quiring no material components and using Charisma as thespellcasting ability (spell save DC 22):At will : detect magic, locate animals or plants3/day each: dispel magic, entangle, plant growth1/day each: etherealness, teleport•Mutating Vegetation. Vegetation within 1 mile ofthe lair becomes infested with parasitic fungi,slowly mutating as it is overwhelmed.If Zuggtmoy dies, these effects fade over the courseof ldlO days.CULTISTS OF ZUGGTMOYZuggtmoy's cultists are primarily mindless victimsof her children's strange spores. The spores burrowinto a victim's brain, turning it into a fanatic servitor.Each victim gains the Spore Kissed trait.Spore Kissed. This creature is immune to the charmed andfrightened conditions. In addition, ifit is reduced to O hitpoints, each creature within 10 feet of it takes poison damageequal to its number of Hit Dice.BONUS ACTIONSInfestation Spores (3/Day). Zuggtmoy releases spores thatburst out in a cloud that fills a 20-foot-radius sphere centeredon her, and it lingers for l minute. Any creature in the cloudwhen it appears, or that enters it later, must make a DC 19Constitution saving throw. On a successful save, the creaturecan't be infected by these spores for 24 hours. On a failedsave, the creature is infected with a disease called the spores ofZuggtmoy, which lasts until the creature is cured of the diseaseor dies. While infected in this way, the creature can't be rein-fected, and it must repeat the saving throw at the end of every24 hours, ending the infection on a success. On a failure, theinfected creature's body is slowly taken over by fungal growth,and after three such failed saves, the creature dies and is rean-imated as a spore servant if it's a type of creature that can be(see the "Myconids" section in the Monster Manual).Mind Control Spores (Recharge 5-6). Zuggtmoy releasesspores that burst out in a cloud that fills a 20-foot-radiussphere centered on her, and it lingers for l minute. Humanoidsand Beasts in the cloud when it appears, or that enter it later,must make a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw. On a successfulsave, a creature can't be infected by these spores for 24 hours .On a failed save, the creature is infected with a disease calledthe influence ofZuggtmoy for 24 hours. While infected in thisway, the creature is charmed by her and can't be reinfected bythese spores.REACTIONSProtective Thrall. When Zuggtmoy is hit by an attack roll, onecreature within 10 feet of her that is charmed by her is hit bythe attack instead.LEGENDARY ACTIONSZuggtmoy can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the op-tions below. Only one legendary action option can be used at atime and only at the end of another creature's turn . Zuggtmoyregains spent legendary actions at the start of her turn .Attack. Zuggtmoy makes one Pseudopod attack.Exert Will. One creature charmed by Zuggtmoy that she cansee must use its reaction, if available, to move up to its speedas she directs or to make one weapon attack against a targetthat she designates.- ::t . :z::: =t · c;: 54 S ¥5 55% St '-QS a:s:;:: #£ ·- g t#& '* SitSf-S 1 ·· C282 · CHAPTER 2 J BESTIARYAPPENDIXMONSTER LISTSSTAT BLOCKS BY CREATURE TYPEABERRATIONS Duergar screamer, 112 FIENDS GIANTSBalhannoth, 55 Hellfire engine, 152 Alkilith , 44 Cloud giant smiling one, 81Berbalang, 61 Marut, 173 Amnizu, 46 Dire troll , 246Choker, 76 Retriever, 209 Armanite , 50 Fire giant dreadnought, 124Cranium rat, 83 Steel predator, 232 Babau , 52 Frost giant everlast-Death kiss , 85 Stone cursed , 233 Bael, 54 ing one, 731Derro, 91 DRAGONSBaphomet, 58 Mouth of Grolantor, 187Derro savant, 92 Barghest, 60 Ogre battering ram, 200Elder brain , 120 Guard drake, 151 Black abishai, 38 Ogre bolt launcher, 200Gauth , 733 Kobold dragonshield , 163 Blue abishai , 39 Ogre chain brute , 201Gazer, 734 ELEMENTALS Bulezau , 67 Ogre ho wdah, 201Mindwitness , 181 Air elemental Canoloth, 69 Rot troll , 247Morkoth , 186 myrmidon , 122 Demogorgon, 90 Spirit troll , 247N-eogi , 192 Earth elemental Dhergoloth, 94 Stone giant dream-Neogi hatchling, 191 myrmidon, 122 Draegloth, 98 walker, 234Neogi master, 192 Elder tempest, 121 Dybbuk, 173 Storm giant quint-Neothelid, 193 Fire elemental Flind, 127 essent, 235Star spawn grue, 227 myrmidon , 123 Fraz-Urb'luu, 129 Venom troll , 248Star spawn hulk, 227 Firenewt warlock Geryon, 736 HUMANOIDSStar spawn larva mage, 228 of Imix, 125 Graz'zt, 148Star spawn mangler, 229 Firenewt warrior, 125 Green abishai , 40 Abjurer wizard , 260Star spawn seer, 230 Flail snail , 126 Howler, 155 Apprentice wizard, 259Swarm of cranium rats, 83 Hutijin, 157 Archdruid , 48Ulitharid, 249 Frost salamander, 732 Hydroloth , 158 Archer, 49Leviathan, 171 Juiblex, 160 Bard, 59BEASTS Phoenix, 206 Maurezhi , 175 Blackguard , 63Water elementalAurochs , 71 Maw demon , 176 Champion , 74Brontosaurus , 95 myrmidon, 123 Merregon, 179 Conjurer wizard , 260Deep rothe , 71 Zaratan , 278 Merrenoloth, 180 Diviner wizard , 261Deinonychus, 95 FEY Moloch , 183 Drow arachnomancer, 99Dimetrodon, 95 Annis hag, 47 Molydeus , 784 Drow favored consort, 100Dolphin, 97 Autumn eladrin, 115 Nabassu, 188 Drow house captain, 101Hadrosaurus , 96 Bheur hag, 62 Narzugon, 190 Drow inquisitor, 102Ox, 72 Boggle, 65 Nupperibo, 196 Drow matron mother, 704Quetzalcoatlus, 96 Darkling, 84 Oinoloth, 202 Drow shadowblade, 105Stegosaurus , 96 Darkling elder, 84 Orcus, 204 Duergar despot , l 07Swarm of rot grubs, 237 Dolphin delighter, 97 Orthon , 205 Duergar kavalrachni , 107Velociraptor, 96 Hobgoblin devastator, 153 Red abishai , 40 Duergar mind master, 108CELESTIALS Hobgoblin iron shadow, 154 Rutterkin, 210 Duergar soulblade, 109Korred, 766 Shoosuva , 216 Duergar stone guard, 110Ki-rin, 162 Sibriex, 217 Duergar warlord, 111Meenlock, 178CONSTRUCTS Nilbog, 195 Stench kow, 72 Duergar xarrorn, 111Cadaver collector, 68 Quickling, 207 Tanarukk, 240 Enchanter wizard , 261Clockwork bronze scout, 79 Redcap, 208 Titivilus, 242 Evoker wizard , 262Clockwork iron cobra , 79 Spring eladrin , 716 Vargouille, 2 57 Giff, 738Cl oc kw o rk oaken bolter, 80 Summer eladrin , 116 Wast rilith, 258 Gith yanki g ish , 140Cl o ck work stone Winter el adrin , 117 White abishai , 41 Gith yan ki kith'rak , 140defend er, 80 Yeth hound , 271 Yagnoloth, 268 Githya nki supreme co m-Duergar hammerer, 112 Yeenog hu , 27 0 mander, 141Za ri el, 280 Githze rai anarc h, 142Zuggtmo y, 282APPENDIX I MONSTER LISTS 283Githzerai enl ightened , 143 MONSTROSITIES Nagpa , 189 PLANTSGrung, 149 Adult kruthik , 169 Sea spawn, 211 Corpse flower, 82Grung elite warrior, 150 Angry sorrowsworn , 222 Shadow mastiff, 215 Thorny vegepygmy, 253Grung wildling, 150 Astral dreadnought , 51 Shadow mastiff alpha , 215 Vegepygm y, 252Illusionist wiza rd, 263 Banderhobb, 56 Skulk , 219 Vegepygmy chief, 253Kobold inventor, 164 Catoblepas , 70 Tlincalli, 243 Wood woad , 266Kobold scale sorcerer, 165 Cave fisher, 73 Trapper, 245Martial arts adept, 172 Chitine, 75 Wretched sorrowsworn , 224 UN DEADMaster thief, 174 Choldrith , 77 Xvart , 267 Alhoon , 43Necromancer wizard , 264 Deep scion , 88 Xvart warlock of Allip , 45Shadar- kai gloom Female steede r, 231 Ra xivort, 267 Bodak, 64weaver, 213 Froghemoth , 130 Young kruthik, 168 Boneclaw, 66Shadar-kai shadow Giant strider, 137 Yuan-ti anathema , 272 Deathlock , 86dancer, 213 Girallon , 139 Yuan-ti broodguard , 273 Deathlock mastermind, 87Shadar-kai soul monger, 214 Gnoll flesh gnawer, 144 Yuan-ti mind whisperer, 274 Deathlock wight , 87Swashbuckler, 238 Gnoll hunter, 144 Yuan -ti nightmare Devourer, 93Tortle, 244 Gray render, 146 speaker, 275 Eidolon , 114To rtle druid , 244 Hungry sorrowsworn , 223 Yu an-ti pit master, 276 Gnoll witherling, 145Tr ansmuter w iz ard, 265 Kraken priest, 167 Nightwa lk e r, 194War priest, 254 Kruthik hive lord, 169 OOZES Skull lord, 220Warlock of the Archfey, 255 Leucrotta, 170 Adult oblex, 198 Spawn of Kyuss, 225Warlock of the Fiend , 255 Lonely sorrowsworn, 223 Elde r oble x, 199 Sword wraith com-Warlock of the Great Lost sorrowsworn , 224 Oblex spawn, 197 mander, 239Old One , 256 Male steeder, 231 Slithering tracker, 221 Swo rd wraith warrior, 239Warlord , 257 Mea z el , 177 Vampiric mist, 250STAT BLOCKS BY CHALLENGE RATINGCHALLENGE 0 CHALLENGE 1/2 Quickling, 207 Shadow mastiff, 215Cran ium rat , 83 Chitine, 75 Sea spawn , 211 Tortle druid , 244Darkling, 84 Stone cursed, 233 Vegepygmy chief, 253CHALLENGE 1/8 Firenewt warrior, 125 Thorny vegepygmy, 253 Yuan-ti broodguard, 273Boggle, 65 Gazer, 134 Vargouille, 251Dolphin , 97 Gnoll hunter, 144 Xvart warlock of CHALLENGE 3Neogi hatchling, 191 Nupperibo, 196 Ra xivort, 267 Archer, 49Xvart, 267 Skulk, 219 Bulezau , 67Young kruthik, 168 Stench kow, 72 CHALLENGE 2 Cave fisher, 73Swarm of rot grubs , 237 Adult kruthi k, 169 Choldrith, 77CHALLENGE 1/4 Aurochs , 71 Death lock wight , 87Apprentice wizard, 259 CHALLENGE 1 Bard, 59 Deep scion, 88Deep rothe, 71 Choker, 76 Berbalang, 61 Derro savant, 92Derro, 91 Clockwork bronze scout , 79 Darkling elder, 84 Dolphin delighter, 97Dimetrodon , 95 Deinonychus, 95 Duergar hammerer, 112 Duergar screamer, 112Gnoll witherling, 145 Duergar soulblade , 109 Duergar kavalrachni , 107 Flail snail , 126Grung, 149 Female steeder, 231 Duergar mind master, 108 Giff, 138Hadrosaurus, 96 Firenewt warlock Duerga r stone guard , 110 Illusionist wizard, 263Kobold inventor, 164 oflmi x, 125 Duergar xarrorn, 111 Leucrotta, 170Male steeder, 231 Giant stride r, 137 Grung e li te warrio r, 150 Martial arts adept, 172Oblex spawn , 197 Gnoll flesh gnawer, 144 Guard drake, 151 Merrenoloth, 180Ox , 72 Grung wildling, 150 Hobgoblin iron shadow, 154 Neogi , 192Star spawn grue, 227 Kobold dragonshield, 163 Meenlock, 178 Ogre cha in brute , 201Tortle, 244 Kobold scale sorcerer, 165 Ogre bolt launcher, 200 Redcap, 208Wretched sorrowsworn, 224 Maw demon , 176 Ogre howdah , 201 Shadow mastiff alpha, 215Vegepygmy, 252 Meazel, 177 Quetzalcoatlus, 96 Slithering tracker, 221Velociraptor, 96 Nilbog, 195 Rutterkin, 210 Swashbuckler, 238284 APPE ' DI X I MONSTER LISTSSword wraith warrior, 239 CHALLENGE 7 Githzerai enlightened, 143 CHALLENGE 16Trapper, 245 Air elemental Orthon , 205 Githzerai anarch, 142Vampiric mist , 250 myrmidon , 122 Spring eladri n, 116 Hellfire engine, l 52Armanite, SO Star spawn hulk, 227 Phoenix, 206CHALLENGE 4 Bheur hag, 62 Stone giant dream- Star spawn larva mage, 228Babau, 52 Black abishai, 38 walker, 234 Steel predator, 232Barghest, 60 Dhergoloth, 94 Summer eladrin, 116 Storm giant quint-Clockwork iron cobra, 79 Draegloth, 98 Winter eladrin, 117 essent, 235Clockwork stone Earth elemental Titivilus, 242defender, 80 myrmidon, 122 CHALLENGE 11Deathlock, 86 Fire elemental Alkilith , 44 CHALLENGE 17Dybbuk , 113 myrmidon, 123 Balhannoth , 55 Blue abisha i, 39Girallon, 139 Korred , 166 Cloud giant smiling one, 81 Nagpa , 189Hobgoblin devastator, 153 Lost sorrowsworn, 224 Drow shadowblade, 105Merregon, 179 Maurezhi, 175 Hungry sorrowsworn, 223 CHALLENGE 18Neogi master, 192 Shadar-kai shadow Morkoth, 186 Amnizu, 46Ogre battering ram , 200 dancer, 213 Shadar- kai soul monger, 214 Drow favored consort, 100Stegosaurus, 96 Venom troll , 248 Spirit tro ll , 247 Sibriex, 217Warlock of the Archfey, 255 Warlock of the Fiend , 255 Yagnoloth , 268 CHALLENGE 19Yeth hound , 271 Water elemental Bael , 54Yuan-ti mind whisperer, 274 CHALLENGE 12Yuan -ti nightmaremyrmidon , 123 Archdruid , 48 Red abishai, 40speaker, 275 CHALLENGE 8 Boneclaw, 66 CHALLENGE 20Blackguard , 63 Duergardespot , 107 Drow matron mother, 104CHALLENGE 5 Canoloth , 69 Eidolon , 114 Leviathan, 171Adult oble x, 198 Corpse flower, 82 Frost giant everlast- Nightwalker, 194Allip, 45 Deathlock mastermind, 87 ing one, 131Banderhobb, 56 Diviner wizard, 261 Githyanki kith'rak, 140 CHALLENGE 21Brontosaurus, 95 Howler, 155 Gray render, 146 Astral dreadnought, 51Catoblepas , 70 Shoosuva , 216 Ki-rin, 162 Hutijin , 157Clockwork oaken bolter, 80 Sword wraith com- O inoloth , 202 Moloch , 183Enchanter wizard, 261 mander, 239 Warlord, 257 Molydeus, 184Kraken priest, 167 Yuan -ti anathema, 272Kruthik hive lo rd, 169 CHALLENGE 9 CHALLENGE 22Master thief, 174 Abjurer wizard, 260 CHALLENGE 13 Geryon , 136Mindw itness , 181 Champion , 74 Angry sorrowsworn, 222 Zaratan, 278Spawn of Kyuss, 225 Drow house captain , 101 Devourer, 93Star spawn mangler, 229 Evoker wizard, 262 Dire troll, 246 CHALLENGE 23Swarm of cranium rats, 83 Flind, 127 Drow arachnomancer, 99 Baphomet , 58Tanarukk , 240 Frost salamander, 132 Narzugon , 190 Elder tempest, 121Tlincalli , 243 Hydroloth , l 58 Neothelid , 193 Fraz-Urb'luu, 129Tr ans muter wizard, 265 Lonely sorrowsworn , 223 Star spawn seer, 230 )uible x, 160Wood woad, 266 Necromancer wizard , 264 Wastrilith, 258 Zuggtmoy, 282Yuan-ti pit master, 276 Rot troll, 247 CHALLENGE 14 CHALLENGE 24CHALLENGE 6Shadar- kai gloom Cadaver collector, 68 Graz'zt, 148weaver, 213Annis hag, 47 Ulitharid , 249Drow inquisitor, 102 Yeenoghu , 270Bodak, 64 Elder brain , 120Conjurer wizard, 260War priest, 254 Fire giant dreadnought, 124 CHALLENGE 25Duergar warlord, ll l CHALLENGE 10 Githyanki supreme com- Marut, 173Gauth , 133 Alhoon , 43 mander, 141 CHALLENGE 26Mouth of Grolantor, 187 Autumn eladrin, 115 Retriever, 209 Demogorgon , 90Warlock of the Great Death kiss, 85 CHALLENGE 15 Orcus , 204Old One , 256 Elder oble x, 199 Green abishai , 40 Zariel, 280White abishai, 41 Froghemoth, 130 Nabassu , 188Githyanki gish , 140 Skull lord, 220APPENDIX I MONSTER LISTS 285STAT BLOCKS BY ENVIRONMENTARCTIC CREATURES CR CreaturesCR Creatures 5 Kruthik hive lord , spawn of Kyuss, tlincalli, yuan-ti1/4 Gnoll witherling pit master1/2 Gnoll hunter 7 Lost sorrowsworn, warlock of the FiendGnoll flesh gnawer 8 Howler2 Guard drake 9 Champion, lonely sorrowsworn, necromancer wiz-3 Vampiric mist ard, rot troll , war priest4 Warlock of the Archfey 10 Githyanki gish, githzerai enlightened, orthon ,6 Warlock of the Great Old One summer eladrin7 Bheur hag, lost sorrowsworn, warlock of the Fiend 12 Boneclaw, eidolon, githyanki kith'rak, ki-rin, oino-9 Frost salamander loth , yuan-ti anathema10 Winter eladrin 14 Githyanki supreme commander, retriever12 Boneclaw 15 Skull lord13 Dire troll 16 Phoenix, storm giant quintessent20 Nightwalker 17 Nagpa23 Elder tempest 20 Nightwalker22 ZaratanCOASTAL CREATURESCR Creatures FOREST CREATURES1/8 Dolphin CR Creatures1/4 Dimetrodon, tortle 1/8 Boggle1/2 Skulk 1/4 Gnoll witherling, grung, kobold inventor, vege-Sea spawn pygmy, velociraptor2 Quetzalcoatl us, tortle druid 1/2 Darkling, gnoll hunter, skulk3 Deep scion, dolphin delighter, merrenoloth, Choker, clockwork bronze scout, deinonychus,swash!5uckler, vampiric mist gnoll flesh gnawer, grung wildling, kobold drag-5 Kra ken priest onshield, kobold scale sorcerer, meazel, nilbog,8 Canoloth, shoosuva quickling, thorny vegepygmy9 Fl ind, lonely sorrowsworn 2 Darkling elder, grung elite warrior, guard drake,10 Stone giant dreamwalker hobgoblin iron shadow, meenlock, shadow mas-tiff, vegepygmy chief, yuan-ti broodguard11 Balhannoth, morkoth, spirit troll 3 Archer, flail snail, redcap, shadow mastiff alpha,12 Eidolon, frost giant everlasting one, ki-rin vampiric mist13 Wastrilith 4 Barghest, clockwork iron cobra, clockwork stone16 Storm giant quintessent defender, girallon, hobgoblin devastator, stego-17 Blue abishai, nagpa saurus, warlock of the Archfey, yeth hound, yuan-ti20 Leviathan mind whisperer, yuan-ti nightmare speaker23 Elder tempest 5 Brontosaurus, clockwork oaken bolter, woodwoad, yuan-ti pit masterDESERT CREATURES 7 Korred, lost sorrowsworn, shadar-kai shadowCR Creatures dancer, venom troll1/8 Young kruth ik 8 Corpse flower, shoosuva1/2 Firenewt warrior 9 Fl ind, rot trollMeazel, stone cursed, vargouille 10 Autumn eladrin, spring eladrin, summer eladrin,2 Adult kruthik, berbalang, guard drake, yuan-ti winter eladrinbroodguard 11 Hungry sorrowsworn, spirit troll3 Leucrotta 12 Archdruid , eidolon, gray render, yuan-ti anathema4 Dybbuk , yuan-ti mind whisperer, yuan-ti night- 13 Dire trollmare speaker 14 Retriever17 Nagpa22 Zaratan286 APPENDTX I MONSTER LISTSGRASSLAND CREATURES MOUNTAIN CREATURESCR Creatures CR Creatures1/4 Gnoll witherling, hadrosaurus, o x, veloci raptor 1/8 Young kruthik1/2 Gnoll hunter, stench kow 1/4 Derro, kobold inventor, star spawn grueClockwork bronze scout, deinonychus , gnoll flesh 1/2 Firenewt warriorgnawer, meazel Clockwork bronze scout, choker, duergar2 Aurochs, hobgoblin iron shadow, ogre bolt so ul blade, firenewt warlock of Imix, giant strider,launcher, ogre howdah kobold dragonshield , kobold scale sorcerer, mea-3 Leucrotta, ogre chain brute, sword wraith warrior, zel , stone cursedvampiric mist 2 Adult kruthik, aurochs, duergar hammerer, du-4 Barghest, clockwork iron cobra, clockwork stone ergar kavalrachni, duergar mind master, duergardefender, hobgoblin devastator, ogre battering stone guard, duergar xar rorn , guard drake, ogreram, stegosaurus , yeth hound bolt launcher, ogre howdah, quetzalcoatlus5 Brontosaurus, clockwork oaken bolter 3 Duergar screamer, ogre chain brute, vampiric6 Mouth ofGrolantor mist8 Howler, shoosuva, sword wraith commander 4 Barghest, clockwork iron cobra, clockwork stone9 Fl ind defender, ogre battering ram, warlock of the10 Spring eladrin Archfey5 Clockwork oaken bolter, kruthik hive lord ,12 Eidolon, ki - rin tanarukk14 Cadaver collector 6 Annis hag, duergar warlord, warlock of the Great22 Zaratan Old One23 Elder tempest 7 Lost sorrowswornHILL CREATURES 9 Lonely sorrowswornCR Creatures 10 Githyanki gish , githzerai en li ghtened , stone giantdreamwalker1/8 Boggle, neogi hatchling, xvart 11 Balhannoth, cloud giant smiling one1/4 Gnoll witherling, kobold inventor 12 Archdruid , duergar despot, eido lon , githyanki1/2 Firenewt warrior, gnoll hunter kith ' rak , ki-rinClockwork br onze scout, deinonychus , firenewt 13 Dire troll , star spawn seerwarlock of Imi x, giant strider, gnoll fl esh gnawer, 14 Fire giant dreadnought, githyanki supreme com-kobold dragonshield, kobold sca le sorcerer, mea-zel, n il bog, xvar t warlock of Raxivort mander2 Aurochs, hobgoblin Iron Shadow, ogre bolt 16 Phoeni x, star spawn larva mage, storm giantlauncher, ogre howdah, quetzalcoatlus, shadow quintessentmastiff 19 Red abishai3 Neogi, ogre chain brute, redcap, shadow mastiff 22 Zaratanalpha 23 Elder tempest4 Barghest, clockwork iron cobra, clockwork stone SWAMP CREATURESdefender, hobgoblin devastator, neogi master,ogre battering ram, yeth hound CR Creatures5 Clockwork oaken bolter, tanarukk 1/4 Dimetrodon, hadrosaurus , oblex spawn , star6 Annis hag, mouth of Grolantor, warlock of the spawn grue, vegepygmy, wretched sorrowswornGreat Old One 1/2 Darkling, skulk, swarm of rot grubs8 Howler, shoosuva Meazel, vargouille, thorny vegepygmy9 Flind 2 Darkling elder, guard drake, meenlock, shadow10 Stone giant dreamwalker mastiff, vegepygmy chief12 Gray render 3 Flail snail , redcap, shadow mastiff alpha , sword13 Dire troll wraith warrior, vampiric mist4 Warlock of the Archfey22 Zaratan 5 Adult oblex, allip, catoblepas23 Elder tempest 6 Bodak7 Lost sorrowsworn, maurezhi , venom troll8 Corpse flowerAPPEN D LX I MONSTER LISTS 287CR Creatures9 Rot troll10 Elder oblex, froghemoth, sword wraith com-mander11 Spirit troll12 Archdruid13151720Star spawn seer, wastrilithNabassu, skull lordNagpaNightwalkerUNDERDARK CREATURESCR Creatures0 Cranium rat1/8 Boggle, neogi hatchling, xvart, young kruthik1/4 Deep rothe, derro, kobold inventor, male steeder,oblex spawn, wretched sorrowsworn1/2 Chitine, darkling, firenewt warrior, gazer, skulk,swarm of rot grubs23456789.1011121314Choker, duergar soul blade, female steeder,firenewt warlock of Imix, giant strider, kobolddragonshield, kobold scale sorcerer, maw de-mon, meazel, nilbog, vargouille, xvart warlock ofRaxivortAdult kruthik, darkling elder, duergar hammerer,duergar kavalrachni, duergar mind master, du-ergar stone guard , duergar xarrorn, guard drake,yuan-ti broodguardCave fisher, choldrith, derro savant, duergarscreamer, flail snail, neogi, slithering tracker,trapper, vampiric mistBabau, barghest, neogi master, yuan-ti mindwhisperer, yuan-ti nightmare speakerAdult oblex, kruthik hive lord, mindwitness,spawn of Kyuss, swarm of cranium rats, tanarukk,yuan-ti pit masterBodak, duergar warlord, gauth, warlock of theGreat Old One .Armanite, dhergoloth, draegloth, lost sorrow-sworn, shadow dancer, venom troll, warlock ofthe FiendBlackguard, canoloth, howlerDrow house captain , shadar-kai gloom weaver,lonely sorrowsworn, rot troll, ulitharidAlhoon, death kiss, elder oblex, froghemoth,orthonAlkilith, balhannoth, drow shadowblade, hungrysorrowsworn, shadar-kai soul monger, spirit trollDuergar despot, oinoloth, yuan-ti anathemaAngry sorrowsworn, devourer, dire troll, drowarachnomancer, neothelid, wastrilithDrow inquisitor, eld er brain, fire giant dread -nought, retriever288 APPENDIX I MONSTER LIS TSCR Creatures15 Nabassu, skull lord17 Nagpa18 Drow favored consort, sibriex20 Drow matron mother, nightwalker22 ZaratanUNDERWATER CREATURESCR Creatures1/8 Dolphinl Sea spawn3 Deep scion, dolphin delighter5 Kraken priest11 Morkoth12 Archdruid13 Wastrilith16 Storm giant quintessent20 LeviathanURBAN CREATURESCR Creatures0 Cranium rat1/8 Boggle1/4 Apprentice wizard , kobold inventor, oblex spawn,ox, wretched sorrowsworn1/2 Darkling, skulk, stench kowKobold scale sorcerer, meazel , stone cursed2 Bard, darkling elder, guard drake, meenlock3 Archer, giff, illusionist wizard, martial arts adept,slithering tracker, swashbuckler, vampiric mist4 Babau, death lock, dybbuk, warlock of the Archfey5 Adult oblex, al lip, banderhobb, enchanter wizard,master thief, swarm of cranium rats, transmuterwizard6 Bodak, conjurer wizard, warlock of the Great OldOne, white abisha i7 Black abishai, lost sorrowsworn, maurezhi, sha-dar-kai shadow dancer, warlock of the Fiend8 Blackguard, canoloth, corpse flower, death lockmastermind, diviner wizard9 Abjurer wizard, champion, evoker wizard, lonelysorrowsworn, necromancer wizard, shadar-kaigloom weaver, war priest10 Elder oblex, githyanki gish, githzerai enlightened,orthon11 Alkilith, hungry sorrowsworn, shadar-kai soulmonger, yagnoloth12 Boneclaw, eidolon , githyanki kith'rak, warlord13 Angry sorrowsworn, star spawn seer14 Githyanki supreme commander15 Green abishai, nabassu16 Steel predator17 Blue abishai, nagpa19 Red abishaiThe multiverse shines with countlesswonders, yet I have seen so many ofthem that I am rarely awed.Not so with ki-rin. They fillme with awe every time.- ~oraenkainerz,