Unearthed Arcana: The Ranger,Revised

Over the past year, you’ve seen us try a number ofnew approaches to the ranger, all aimed ataddressing the class’s high levels of playerdissatisfaction and its ranking as D&D’s weakestclass by a significant margin.Those two factors combined to put us on thepath to this revision. We have classes that rate asweak, but which nonetheless have high levels ofplayer satisfaction. That tells us people playingthose classes are happy with how their characters’abilities work and with their own experience at thetable, even if those classes aren’t the strongest.After all, not every class can rank at the top.Likewise, most issues we see with classes areconfined to specific abilities that don’t play a bigrole in determining whether players like the classas a whole. In other words, no class is perfect, buteach is close enough to the mark in its own waythat players are happy.As such, the ranger’s status as a sore spot forplayers has been a cause for concern for a while.And so, today we present a new revision of theranger. Though it retains many of the elements ofthe existing class, a lot has changed, so it’s best tosimply dig into the new material to get a sense ofhow it feels. But what I’d like to address here ishow the D&D game will evolve in the future.Any change as dramatic as rebuilding a characterclass requires planning, verification, and a clear,easy implementation.The planning phase goes back to our review ofplaytest feedback. We review data and readanecdotes on Reddit, forums, and social media. Wetry to decide if addressing the issue is worth thepotential disruption to the game.In this case, we felt that a few factors combinedto push for a change. Many players want to playrangers, but few were happy with the class, whichheld its place at the bottom of class powerrankings by a significant margin. The class’sindividual features also filled the top-ten list oflowest-rated individual character features.With our course set for a revision, we’ve spentthe past year experimenting and gatheringfeedback. We believe that if something doesn’t hitthe mark the first time, we need to take our timeand make sure our path to a solution is the rightone. So our tinkering with the ranger led us here,to this latest update.Our next step, which begins now, is verification.Are these fixes correct? Do they solve problems atyour table? Do you, as the community of D&Dplayers and DMs, accept them? I expect anotherrevision or two to be made to the class, but I’mconfident that the scope and direction of thesechanges fit in with what the community is lookingfor.Finally, we come to implementation. If thisiteration of the ranger, or a future revision of it,grades high enough, our plan is to present it as arevised ranger in a future D&D sourcebook.Players can select the original ranger or therevised version, though DMs will always be free touse only one or the other. Both will be legal forD&D Adventurers League play, and players ofexisting ranger characters will have the option toswap to the revised version. As you’ll see as youread further, the original ranger and the revisedclass use almost identical progression tables, evenif the specifics of some features differ. With a littlework on our end, we can ensure that any newranger options we provide work for both classes.Overall, this approach captures our intent—fixwhat needs to be fixed when it’s necessary to do so,but in a way that minimizes disruption andmaximizes player satisfaction. With that in mind,take a look at our new ranger and keep an eye outfor the feedback survey to follow.©2016 Wizards of the Coast LLC 2Class FeaturesAs a ranger, you gain the following class features.Hit PointsHit Dice: 1d10 per ranger levelHit Points at 1st Level: 10 + your ConstitutionmodifierHit Points at Higher Levels: 1d10 (or 6) + yourConstitution modifier per ranger level after 1stProficienciesArmor: Light armor, medium armor, shieldsWeapons: Simple weapons, martial weaponsTools: NoneSaving Throws: Strength, DexteritySkills: Choose three from Animal Handling,Athletics, Insight, Investigation, Nature,Perception, Stealth, and SurvivalEquipmentYou start with the following equipment, inaddition to the equipment granted by yourbackground:• (a) scale mail or (b) leather armor• (a) two shortswords or (b) two simple meleeweapons• (a) a dungeoneer’s pack or (b) an explorer’s pack• A longbow and a quiver of 20 arrowsFavored EnemyBeginning at 1st level, you have significantexperience studying, tracking, hunting, and eventalking to a certain type of enemy commonlyencountered in the wilds.Choose a type of favored enemy: beasts, fey,humanoids, monstrosities, or undead. You gain a+2 bonus to damage rolls with weapon attacksagainst creatures of the chosen type. Additionally,you have advantage on Wisdom (Survival) checksto track your favored enemies, as well as onIntelligence checks to recall information aboutthem.When you gain this feature, you also learn onelanguage of your choice, typically one spoken byyour favored enemy or creatures associated with it.However, you are free to pick any language youwish to learn.The RangerProficiency Spells — Spell Slots per Spell Level —Level Bonus Features Known 1st 2nd 3rd 4th 5th1st +2 Favored Enemy, Natural Explorer — — — — — —2nd +2 Fighting Style, Spellcasting 2 2 — — — —3rd +2 Primeval Awareness, Ranger Conclave 3 3 — — — —4th +2 Ability Score Improvement 3 3 — — — —5th +3 Ranger Conclave feature 4 4 2 — — —6th +3 Greater Favored Enemy 4 4 2 — — —7th +3 Ranger Conclave feature 5 4 3 — — —8th +3 Ability Score Improvement, Fleet of Foot 5 4 3 — — —9th +4 — 6 4 3 2 — —10th +4 Hide in Plain Sight 6 4 3 2 — —11th +4 Ranger Conclave feature 7 4 3 3 — —12th +4 Ability Score Improvement 7 4 3 3 — —13th +5 — 8 4 3 3 1 —14th +5 Vanish 8 4 3 3 1 —15th +5 Ranger Conclave feature 9 4 3 3 2 —16th +5 Ability Score Improvement 9 4 3 3 2 —17th +6 — 10 4 3 3 3 118th +6 Feral Senses 10 4 3 3 3 119th +6 Ability Score Improvement 11 4 3 3 3 220th +6 Foe Slayer 11 4 3 3 3 2©2016 Wizards of the Coast LLC 3Natural ExplorerYou are a master of navigating the natural world,and you react with swift and decisive actionwhen attacked. This grants you the followingbenefits:• You ignore difficult terrain.• You have advantage on initiative rolls.• On your first turn during combat, you haveadvantage on attack rolls against creaturesthat have not yet acted.In addition, you are skilled at navigating thewilderness. You gain the following benefits whentraveling for an hour or more:• Difficult terrain doesn’t slow your group’stravel.• Your group can’t become lost except bymagical means.• Even when you are engaged in another activitywhile traveling (such as foraging, navigating,or tracking), you remain alert to danger.• If you are traveling alone, you can movestealthily at a normal pace.• When you forage, you find twice as much foodas you normally would.• While tracking other creatures, you also learntheir exact number, their sizes, and how longago they passed through the area.Fighting StyleAt 2nd level, you adopt a particular style offighting as your specialty. Choose one of thefollowing options. You can’t take a Fighting Styleoption more than once, even if you later get tochoose again.ArcheryYou gain a +2 bonus to attack rolls you makewith ranged weapons.DefenseWhile you are wearing armor, you gain a +1bonus to AC.DuelingWhen you are wielding a melee weapon in onehand and no other weapons, you gain a +2 bonusto damage rolls with that weapon.Two-Weapon FightingWhen you engage in two-weapon fighting, youcan add your ability modifier to the damage ofthe second attack.SpellcastingBy the time you reach 2nd level, you havelearned to use the magical essence of nature tocast spells, much as a druid does. See chapter 10for the general rules of spellcasting and chapter11 for the ranger spell list.Spell SlotsThe Ranger table shows how many spell slotsyou have to cast your spells of 1st level andhigher. To cast one of these spells, you mustexpend a slot of the spell’s level or higher. Youregain all expended spell slots when you finish along rest.For example, if you know the 1st-level spellanimal friendship and have a 1st-level and a 2nd-level spell slot available, you can cast animalfriendship using either slot.Spells Known of 1st Level andHigherYou know two 1st-level spells of your choicefrom the ranger spell list.The Spells Known column of the Ranger tableshows when you learn more ranger spells ofyour choice. Each of these spells must be of alevel for which you have spell slots. For instance,when you reach 5th level in this class, you canlearn one new spell of 1st or 2nd level.Additionally, when you gain a level in this class,you can choose one of the ranger spells youknow and replace it with another spell from theranger spell list, which also must be of a level forwhich you have spell slots.©2016 Wizards of the Coast LLC 4Spellcasting AbilityWisdom is your spellcasting ability for yourranger spells, since your magic draws on yourattunement to nature. You use your Wisdomwhenever a spell refers to your spellcastingability. In addition, you use your Wisdommodifier when setting the saving throw DC for aranger spell you cast and when making an attackroll with one.Spell save DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus +your Wisdom modifierSpell attack modifier = your proficiency bonus+ your Wisdom modifierPrimeval AwarenessBeginning at 3rd level, your mastery of rangerlore allows you to establish a powerful link tobeasts and to the land around you.You have an innate ability to communicatewith beasts, and they recognize you as a kindredspirit. Through sounds and gestures, you cancommunicate simple ideas to a beast as an action,and can read its basic mood and intent. You learnits emotional state, whether it is affected bymagic of any sort, its short-term needs (such asfood or safety), and actions you can take (if any)to persuade it to not attack.You cannot use this ability against a creaturethat you have attacked within the past 10minutes.Additionally, you can attune your senses todetermine if any of your favored enemies lurknearby. By spending 1 uninterrupted minute inconcentration (as if you were concentrating on aspell), you can sense whether any of yourfavored enemies are present within 5 miles ofyou. This feature reveals which of your favoredenemies are present, their numbers, and thecreatures’ general direction and distance (inmiles) from you.If there are multiple groups of your favoredenemies within range, you learn this informationfor each group.Ranger ConclaveAt 3rd level, you choose to emulate the idealsand training of a ranger conclave: the BeastConclave, the Hunter Conclave, or the StalkerConclave, all detailed at the end of the classdescription. Your choice grants you features at3rd level and again at 5th, 7th, 11th, and 15thlevel.Ability Score ImprovementWhen you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th,16th, and 19th level, you can increase one abilityscore of your choice by 2, or you can increasetwo ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal,you can’t increase an ability score above 20using this feature.Greater Favored EnemyAt 6th level, you are ready to hunt even deadliergame. Choose a type of greater favored enemy:aberrations, celestials, constructs, dragons,elementals, fiends, or giants. You gain all thebenefits against this chosen enemy that younormally gain against your favored enemy,including an additional language. Your bonus todamage rolls against all your favored enemiesincreases to +4.Additionally, you have advantage on savingthrows against the spells and abilities used by agreater favored enemy.Fleet of FootBeginning at 8th level, you can use the Dashaction as a bonus action on your turn.Hide in Plain SightStarting at 10th level, you can remain perfectlystill for long periods of time to set up ambushes.When you attempt to hide on your turn, youcan opt to not move on that turn. If you avoidmoving, creatures that attempt to detect youtake a −10 penalty to their Wisdom (Perception)checks until the start of your next turn. You losethis benefit if you move or fall prone, either©2016 Wizards of the Coast LLC 5voluntarily or because of some external effect.You are still automatically detected if any effector action causes you to no longer be hidden.If you are still hidden on your next turn, youcan continue to remain motionless and gain thisbenefit until you are detected.VanishStarting at 14th level, you can use the Hideaction as a bonus action on your turn. Also, youcan’t be tracked by nonmagical means, unlessyou choose to leave a trail.Feral SensesAt 18th level, you gain preternatural senses thathelp you fight creatures you can’t see. When youattack a creature you can’t see, your inability tosee it doesn’t impose disadvantage on yourattack rolls against it.You are also aware of the location of anyinvisible creature within 30 feet of you, providedthat the creature isn’t hidden from you and youaren’t blinded or deafened.Foe SlayerAt 20th level, you become an unparalleledhunter. Once on each of your turns, you can addyour Wisdom modifier to the attack roll or thedamage roll of an attack you make. You canchoose to use this feature before or after the roll,but before any effects of the roll are applied.Ranger ConclavesAcross the wilds, rangers come together to formconclaves—loose associations whose membersshare a similar outlook on how best to protectnature from those who would despoil it.Beast ConclaveMany rangers are more at home in the wildsthan in civilization, to the point where animalsconsider them kin. Rangers of the Beast Conclavedevelop a close bond with a beast, then furtherstrengthen that bond through the use of magic.Animal CompanionAt 3rd level, you learn to use your magic tocreate a powerful bond with a creature of thenatural world.With 8 hours of work and the expenditure of50 gp worth of rare herbs and fine food, you callforth an animal from the wilderness to serve asyour faithful companion. You normally selectyou companion from among the followinganimals: an ape, a black bear, a boar, a giantbadger, a giant weasel, a mule, a panther, or awolf. However, your DM might pick one of theseanimals for you, based on the surroundingterrain and on what types of creatures wouldlogically be present in the area.At the end of the 8 hours, your animalcompanion appears and gains all the benefits ofyour Companion’s Bond ability. You can haveonly one animal companion at a time.If your animal companion is ever slain, themagical bond you share allows you to return it tolife. With 8 hours of work and the expenditure of25 gp worth of rare herbs and fine food, you callforth your companion’s spirit and use yourmagic to create a new body for it. You can returnan animal companion to life in this manner evenif you do not possess any part of its body.If you use this ability to return a former animalcompanion to life while you have a currentanimal companion, your current companionleaves you and is replaced by the restoredcompanion.Companion’s BondYour animal companion gains a variety ofbenefits while it is linked to you.The animal companion loses its Multiattackaction, if it has one.The companion obeys your commands as bestit can. It rolls for initiative like any othercreature, but you determine its actions, decisions,attitudes, and so on. If you are incapacitated orabsent, your companion acts on its own.When using your Natural Explorer feature, youand your animal companion can both movestealthily at a normal pace.©2016 Wizards of the Coast LLC 6Keeping Track of ProficiencyWhen you gain your animal companion at 3rd level, itsproficiency bonus matches yours at +2. As you gainlevels and increase your proficiency bonus, rememberthat your companion’s proficiency bonus improves aswell, and is applied to the following areas: Armor Class,skills, saving throws, attack bonus, and damage rolls.Your animal companion has abilities and gamestatistics determined in part by your level. Yourcompanion uses your proficiency bonus ratherthan its own. In addition to the areas where itnormally uses its proficiency bonus, an animalcompanion also adds its proficiency bonus to itsAC and to its damage rolls.Your animal companion gains proficiency intwo skills of your choice. It also becomesproficient with all saving throws.For each level you gain after 3rd, your animalcompanion gains an additional hit die andincreases its hit points accordingly.Whenever you gain the Ability ScoreImprovement class feature, your companion’sabilities also improve. Your companion canincrease one ability score of your choice by 2, orit can increase two ability scores of your choiceby 1. As normal, your companion can’t increasean ability score above 20 using this featureunless its description specifies otherwise.Your companion shares your alignment, andhas a personality trait and a flaw that you canroll for or select from the tables below. Yourcompanion shares your ideal, and its bond isalways, “The ranger who travels with me is abeloved companion for whom I would gladlygive my life.”Why No Multiattack?Multiattack is a useful design tool that keeps monsterssimple for the DM. It provides a boost in offense, butthat boost is meant to make a beast threatening for onebattle—a notion that doesn’t mesh well with a beastintended to fight with the party, rather than against it.Project Multiattack across an entire adventure, and ananimal companion runs the risk of outclassing thefighters and barbarians in the party.So in story terms, your animal companion has tradedin some of its ferocity (in the form of Multiattack) forbetter awareness and the ability to fight moreeffectively in concert with you.Expanding Companion OptionsDepending on the nature of your campaign, the DMmight choose to expand the options for your animalcompanion. As a rule of thumb, a beast can serve as ananimal companion if it is Medium or smaller, has 15 orfewer hit points, and cannot deal more than 8 damagewith a single attack. In general, that applies to creatureswith a challenge rating of 1/4 or less, but there areexceptions.Your animal companion gains the benefits ofyour Favored Enemy feature, and of yourGreater Favored Enemy feature when you gainthat feature at 6th level. It uses the favoredenemies you selected for those features.d6 Trait1 I’m dauntless in the face of adversity.2 Threaten my friends, threaten me.3 I stay on alert so others can rest.4 People see an animal and underestimate me. Iuse that to my advantage.5 I have a knack for showing up in the nick of time.6 I put my friends’ needs before my own in allthings.d6 Flaw1 If there’s food left unattended, I’ll eat it.2 I growl at strangers, and all people except myranger are strangers to me.3 Any time is a good time for a belly rub.4 I’m deathly afraid of water.5 My idea of hello is a flurry of licks to the face.6 I jump on creatures to tell them how much I lovethem.Coordinated AttackBeginning at 5th level, you and your animalcompanion form a more potent fighting team.When you use the Attack action on your turn, ifyour companion can see you, it can use itsreaction to make a melee attack.Beast’s DefenseAt 7th level, while your companion can see you,it has advantage on all saving throws.Storm of Claws and FangsAt 11th level, your companion can use its actionto make a melee attack against each creature of©2016 Wizards of the Coast LLC 7its choice within 5 feet of it, with a separateattack roll for each target.Superior Beast’s DefenseAt 15th level, whenever an attacker that yourcompanion can see hits it with an attack, it canuse its reaction to halve the attack’s damageagainst it.Hunter ConclaveSome rangers seek to master weapons to betterprotect civilization from the terrors of thewilderness. Members of the Hunter Conclavelearn specialized fighting techniques for useagainst the most dire threats, from rampagingogres and hordes of orcs to towering giants andterrifying dragons.Hunter’s PreyAt 3rd level, you gain one of the followingfeatures of your choice.Colossus Slayer. Your tenacity can wear downthe most potent foes. When you hit a creaturewith a weapon attack, the creature takes an extra1d8 damage if it’s below its hit point maximum.You can deal this extra damage only once perturn.Giant Killer. When a Large or larger creaturewithin 5 feet of you hits or misses you with anattack, you can use your reaction to attack thatcreature immediately after its attack, providedthat you can see the creature.Horde Breaker. Once on each of your turnswhen you make a weapon attack, you can makeanother attack with the same weapon against adifferent creature that is within 5 feet of theoriginal target and within range of your weapon.Extra AttackBeginning at 5th level, you can attack twice,instead of once, whenever you take the Attackaction on your turn.Defensive TacticsAt 7th level, you gain one of the followingfeatures of your choice.Escape the Horde. Opportunity attacks againstyou are made with disadvantage.Multiattack Defense. When a creature hitsyou with an attack, you gain a +4 bonus to ACagainst all subsequent attacks made by thatcreature for the rest of the turn.Steel Will. You have advantage on savingthrows against being frightened.MultiattackAt 11th level, you gain one of the followingfeatures of your choice.Volley. You can use your action to make aranged attack against any number of creatureswithin 10 feet of a point you can see within yourweapon’s range. You must have ammunition foreach target, as normal, and you make a separateattack roll for each target.Whirlwind Attack. You can use your action tomake melee attacks against any number ofcreatures within 5 feet of you, with a separateattack roll for each target.Superior Hunter’s DefenseAt 15th level, you gain one of the followingfeatures of your choice.Evasion. When you are subjected to an effect,such as a red dragon’s fiery breath or a lightningbolt spell, that allows you to make a Dexteritysaving throw to take only half damage, youinstead take no damage if you succeed on asaving throw, and only half damage if you fail.Stand Against the Tide. When a hostilecreature misses you with a melee attack, you canuse your reaction to force that creature to repeatthe same attack against another creature (otherthan itself) of your choice.Uncanny Dodge. When an attacker that youcan see hits you with an attack, you can use yourreaction to halve the attack’s damage against you.Deep Stalker ConclaveMost folk descend into the depths of theUnderdark only under the most pressingconditions, undertaking some desperate quest orfollowing the promise of vast riches. All too often,evil festers beneath the earth unnoticed, andrangers of the Deep Stalker Conclave strive touncover and defeat such threats before they canreach the surface.©2016 Wizards of the Coast LLC 8Underdark ScoutAt 3rd level, you master the art of the ambush.On your first turn during combat, you gain a +10bonus to your speed, and if you use the Attackaction, you can make one additional attack.You are also adept at evading creatures thatrely on darkvision. Such creatures gain nobenefit when attempting to detect you in darkand dim conditions. Additionally, when the DMdetermines if you can hide from a creature, thatcreature gains no benefit from its darkvision.Deep Stalker MagicAt 3rd level, you gain darkvision out to a range of90 feet. If you already have darkvision, youincrease its range by 30 feet.You also gain access to additional spells at 3rd,5th, 9th, 13th, and 15th level. Once you gain adeep stalker spell, it counts as a ranger spell foryou but doesn’t count against the number ofranger spells you know.Deep Stalker SpellsRanger Level Spells3rd disguise self5th rope trick9th glyph of warding13th greater invisibility17th seemingExtra AttackBeginning at 5th level, you can attack twice,instead of once, whenever you take the Attackaction on your turn.Iron MindAt 7th level, you gain proficiency in Wisdomsaving throws.Stalker’s FlurryStarting at 11th level, once on each of your turnswhen you miss with an attack, you can makeanother attack.Stalker’s DodgeAt 15th level, whenever a creature attacks youand does not have advantage, you can use yourreaction to impose disadvantage on thecreature’s attack roll against you. You can usethis feature before or after the attack roll ismade, but it must be used before the outcome ofthe roll is determined.