UNNEARTHED ARCANA
Cleric, Druid, and Wizard

This document provides playtest options for the cleric, the druid, and the wizard.

This Is Playtest Content
The material in this article is presented for playtesting and to spark your imagination. These game mechanics are in draft form, usable in your campaign but not refined by final game design and editing. They aren’t officially part of the game and aren’t permitted in D&D Adventurers League events. If we decide to make this material official, it will be refined based on your feedback, and then it will appear in a D&D book.

Divine Domain
At 1st level, a cleric gains the Divine Domain feature. Here is a playtest option for that feature: the Twilight Domain.

Twilight Domain
The Twilight Domain governs the transition and blending of light into darkness. It is a time of rest and comfort, but also the threshold between safety and the unknown. Deities of healing or respite (such as Boldrei, Hestia, Mishakal, or Pelor), bravery or protection (such as Dol Arrah, Hajama, Helm, or Ilmater), travel or transition (such as Fharlanghn, Hermes, the Raven Queen, or the Traveler), or the night and dreams (such as Celestian, Morpheus, Nut, or Selûne) might grant their clerics the Twilight Domain. Clerics who serve these deities tend to be brave, delving into the dark to hold its dangers at bay and to bring comfort to those lost far from the light.

Twilight Domain Spells
Cleric Level Spells
1st faerie fire, sleep
3rd darkness, invisibility
5th aura of vitality, Leomund’s tiny hut
7th aura of life, greater invisibility
9th circle of power, dream

Bonus Proficiencies
1st-level Twilight Domain feature
You gain proficiency with martial weapons and heavy armor.

Eyes of Night
1st-level Twilight Domain feature
Your eyes are blessed, allowing you to see through the deepest gloom. You have darkvision with no maximum range; you can see in dim light as if it were bright light and in darkness as if it were dim light. As an action, you can magically give the benefit of this feature to any number of creatures you can see within 10 feet of you. The shared benefit lasts for 10 minutes. You can extend this benefit a number of times equal to your Wisdom modifier (a minimum of once), and you regain all expended uses when you finish a long rest.

Vigilant Blessing
1st-level Twilight Domain feature
The night has taught you to be vigilant. As an action, you give one creature you touch (including possibly yourself) advantage on the next initiative roll the creature makes. This benefit ends immediately after the roll or if you use this feature again.

Channel Divinity: Twilight Sanctuary
2nd-level Twilight Domain feature
You can use your Channel Divinity to refresh your allies with soothing twilight. As an action, you present your holy symbol, and a sphere of twilight emanates from you. The sphere is centered on you, has a 30-foot radius, and is filled with dim light. The sphere moves with you, and it lasts for 1 minute or until you are incapacitated or die. Whenever a creature (including you) ends its turn in the sphere, you can grant that creature one of these benefits:
• Give it 1d8 temporary hit points.

Rule Tip: Temporary Hit Points Don’t Stack
If you have temporary hit points and receive more of them, you don’t add them together, unless a rule says you can. Instead, you decide which temporary hit points to keep. For more information on temporary hit points, see chapter 9 of the Player’s Handbook.

Steps of the Brave
6th-level Twilight Domain feature
You draw strength from your connection to twilight and find yourself at home within its dark embrace, gaining two benefits:
• You have advantage on saving throws against being frightened.
• If you are in dim light or darkness, you can use a bonus action to magically give yourself a flying speed equal to your walking speed until the end of your next turn.

Divine Strike
8th-level Twilight Domain feature
You gain the ability to infuse your weapon strikes with divine energy. Once on each of your turns when you hit a creature with a weapon attack, you can cause the attack to deal an extra 1d8 psychic damage. When you reach 14th level, the extra damage increases to 2d8.

Midnight Shroud
17th-level Twilight Domain feature
You can harness the shrouding power of night to protect your allies and stymie your foes. Whenever you cast the darkness spell using a spell slot, you can choose a number of creatures that you can see (including yourself) equal to your Wisdom modifier (minimum of one). The chosen creatures can see through the darkness.

Druid Circle
At 2nd level, a druid gains the Druid Circle feature. Here is a playtest option for that feature: the Circle of Wildfire.

Circle of Wildfire
Druids who are members of the Circle of Wildfire understand the necessity of destruction, such as how a forest fire promotes growth. These druids bond with a primal spirit that harbors destructive tendencies, allowing the druids to use their power to create controlled flames that help flora and fauna reproduce and grow.

Circle Spells
2nd-level Circle of Wildfire feature
You have formed a mystical bond with a wildfire spirit, a primal being of creation and destruction. Your link with this spirit grants you access to certain spells. At 2nd level, you learn the fire bolt cantrip. When you reach certain levels in this class, you gain access to the spells listed for that level in the Circle of Wildfire Spells table. Once you gain access to one of these spells, you always have it prepared, and it doesn’t count against the number of spells you can prepare each day. If you gain access to a spell that doesn’t appear on the druid spell list, the spell is nonetheless a druid spell for you.

Circle of Wildfire Spells
Druid Level Spells
3rd locate animals or plants, scorching ray
5th fireball, plant growth
7th aura of life, fire shield
9th flame strike, raise dead

Summon Wildfire
2nd-level Circle of Wildfire feature
You can summon the primal spirit bound to your soul. As an action, you can expend one use of your Wild Shape feature to summon your wildfire spirit, rather than assuming a beast form. The spirit appears in an unoccupied space of your choice you can see within 30 feet of you. Each creature within 10 feet of the spirit (other than you) when it appears must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw against your spell save DC or take 2d10 fire damage.

The wildfire spirit is friendly to you and your companions and obeys your commands. See this creature’s game statistics in the wildfire spirit stat block. You determine the spirit’s appearance. Some spirits take the form of a humanoid figure made of gnarled branches covered in flame, while others look like beasts wreathed in fire.

In combat, the wildfire spirit shares your initiative count, but it takes its turn immediately after yours. The only action it takes on its turn is the Dodge action, unless you take a bonus action on your turn to command it to take one of the actions in its stat block or to take the Dash, Disengage, Help, or Hide action.

The wildfire spirit manifests for 1 hour, until it is reduced to 0 hit points, or until you use your Wild Shape again.

Wildfire Spirit
Small elemental, any chaotic alignment
Armor Class 13 (natural armor)
Hit Points equal to the wildfire spirit’s Constitution modifier + your Wisdom modifier + five times your level in this class
Speed 20 ft., fly 30 ft. (hover)
STR 10 (+0) DEX 14 (+2) CON 14 (+2) INT 13 (+1) WIS 15 (+2) CHA 11 (+0)
Saving Throws Dex +4, Con +4, Wis +4
Skills Nature +4
Damage Immunities fire
Condition Immunities charmed, frightened, grappled, prone, restrained
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 12
Languages understands the languages you speak

Soul Bond. The following numbers increase by 1 when your proficiency bonus increases by 1: the spirit’s skill and saving throw bonuses above, the bonuses to hit and damage of its Flame Seed, and the bonus to damage of its Fiery Teleportation.

Actions (Requires Your Bonus Action)
Flame Seed. Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, range 30 ft., one target you can see. Hit: 1d6 + 2 fire damage.
Fiery Teleportation (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). The spirit and each willing creature of your choice within 5 feet of it teleport up to 30 feet to unoccupied spaces you can see. Each creature within 10 feet of the space that the spirit left must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw against your spell save DC or take 1d6 + 2 fire damage.

Enhanced Bond
6th-level Circle of Wildfire feature
The bond with your wildfire spirit enhances your destructive and restorative spells. Whenever you cast a spell that deals fire damage or restores hit points while your wildfire spirit is summoned, roll a d8, and you gain a bonus to one roll of the spell equal to the number rolled. In addition, when you cast a spell with a range other than self, the spell can originate from you or your wildfire spirit.

Flames of Life
10th-level Circle of Wildfire feature
You gain the ability to turn death into flames of vitality. When a Small or larger creature that you can see dies within 30 feet of you or your wildfire spirit, you can use your reaction to cause primal flames to spring from the body. When a creature you can see touches these flames, the creature regains hit points or takes fire damage (your choice) equal to 2d10 + your Wisdom modifier. The flames vanish after a creature has touched them or after 1 minute. You can use this feature a number of times equal to your Wisdom modifier (minimum of once). You regain all expended uses when you finish a long rest.

Blazing Endurance
14th-level Circle of Wildfire feature
The bond with your wildfire spirit is exceptionally strong, even fatal blows only fuel your defiance. If you drop to 0 hit points and don’t die outright, you drop to 1 hit point instead and gain temporary hit points equal to five times your druid level, and each creature of your choice within 30 feet of you that you can see takes fire damage equal to 2d10 + your druid level. Once you use this feature, you can’t use it again until you finish a long rest.

Arcane Tradition
At 2nd level, a wizard gains the Arcane Tradition feature. Here is a playtest option for that feature: the tradition of Onomancy.

Onomancy
Practitioners of magic well know the power of names, but wizards who follow the tradition of Onomancy use their magic to manipulate the words that encompass existence. Onomancers expand their study into language itself, searching for threads of magical significance that weave through names. Something that is named stands out in the multiverse, distinct from the tapestry of creation all around it. That distinction creates power that onomancers seek to tap. By speaking a target’s true name, the wizard’s spells slip between the cracks of the target’s defenses, conforming to its essential nature through the power of its name. To protect themselves, wizards who follow this tradition often hide their true names, typically by adopting monikers and pseudonyms.

True Names
Onomancy, or naming magic, is a method of spellcasting that uses a creature’s true name to enhance a spell’s effects. A true name is the name by which a self-aware creature identifies itself. This name might be the name a person was given at birth, or one a person chose or earned later in life. Whatever a name’s origin, the simplest way for you to know your true name is to think truthfully about yourself and then think, “My name is ...” Your true name is how you finish that sentence. You can try to hide your true name by using a pseudonym, but you must be wary not to inhabit that false name too deeply. If a false name comes to be the best expression of who you are, it becomes your true name. Changing one’s true name is never a quick choice; it’s something that happens over time as a name becomes the creature’s truth. As a quick guide, a creature has a true name if it understands at least one language or it has an alignment.

Bonus Proficiencies
2nd-level Onomancy feature
You learn one language of your choice and gain proficiency with calligrapher’s tools.

Extract Name
2nd-level Onomancy feature
You can magically compel a creature to divulge its true name. As a bonus action, you target one creature you can see within 60 feet of you. The target must make a Wisdom saving throw against your spell save DC. On a successful save, you discern that this magic failed, and you can’t use this feature on the target again. On a failed save, the target is charmed by you until the end of your next turn, and you mentally learn the charmed target’s name or the fact that the target lacks a name. You can use this feature a number of times equal to your Intelligence modifier (minimum of once), and you regain all expended uses of it when you finish a long rest.

Fateful Naming
2nd-level Onomancy feature
You can bend magic to assist or hinder creatures through the power of their true names, and even use those names as an anchor to affect others around them. The bane and bless spells are wizard spells for you, and you add them to your spellbook. You always have them prepared, yet they don’t count against the number of spells you can prepare. You can cast either spell without expending a spell slot if you speak the true name of one target of the spell as part of casting it. You can cast the spells in this way a number of times equal to your Intelligence modifier (a minimum of once), and you regain all expended uses when you finish a long rest.

Resonant Utterance
6th-level Onomancy feature
You learn words of power called Resonants, which allow you to tailor your spells through the use of a target’s true name.

Resonants Known
When you gain this feature, you learn two Resonants of your choice, which are detailed in the “Resonant Options” section. Each time you gain a level in this class, you can replace one resonant you know with a different one.

Using a Resonant
You can use one Resonant when you cast a wizard spell with a spell slot and speak the true name of one creature targeted by the spell. Speaking the name is part of casting the spell. You can use Resonants a number of times equal to half of your wizard level (round down), and you regain all expended uses when you finish a long rest.

Resonant Options
Here are your options when choosing a Resonant:

Absorption. When you cast a spell that deals damage to the named target, you gain 3d6 temporary hit points. The number of temporary hit points you gain increases by 1d6 when you reach 10th level (4d6) and 14th level (5d6) in this class.

Devastation. If the spell requires the named creature to make a saving throw, that creature has disadvantage on the first save it makes against the spell.

Dissolution. The first time the named creature takes damage from the spell, that creature takes an extra 2d8 force damage. The extra force damage increases by 1d8 when you reach 10th level (3d8) and 14th level (4d8) in this class.

Nullification. If the named target is affected by any other spells, you know what those spells are, and you can attempt to end one of your choice by succeeding on an Intelligence check with a DC equal to 10 + the level of the chosen spell.

Puppetry. The first time the named creature takes damage from the spell, you can knock the creature prone or move it up to 10 feet, either directly toward you or away from you.

Sympathy. If the named creature is within range of the spell, you can target the creature with the spell even if you can’t see the creature or it has total cover against the spell.

Inexorable Pronouncement
10th-level Onomancy feature
You learn two new Resonants of your choice from your Resonant Utterance feature.

Relentless Naming
14th-level Onomancy feature
You have learned how to bypass a named creature’s defenses against certain types of damage. When you cast a spell that deals damage to a creature whose true name you speak as part of casting the spell, you can cause the spell to deal force or psychic damage to the creature, instead of the spell’s normal damage type.